Biscuit Krueger, Nen Master - Hunter x Hunter ep. 63-65: Media Club Plus S01E20
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Introduction        1
Summary [0:03:16]        4
Episode 63 [0:05:36]        7
[0:20:08]        20
[0:35:00]        36
Episode 64 [0:53:48]        54
[1:10:10]        69
[1:25:00]        83
Episode 65 [1:43:20]        100
[2:00:00]        117
Final Thoughts [2:11:25]        128
Introduction
[“The Boy in Green” by Jack de Quidt begins playing from soundboard]
Sylvia: I still don't know if we're supposed to talk during this.
Keith: You can, but I'll cut it out. 
Sylvia: Okay. [Dre laughs] You should keep that in.
Jack: Hey.
Keith: Welcome to Media Club Plus, a podcast about diving into the media that interests us and the stories that excite us. As always, we are brought to you by Friends at the Table. This season, we're watching 2011's Hunter × Hunter, based on the manga by Yoshihiro Togashi. My name is Keith Carberry. You can find me on Twitter and Cohost at @KeithJCarberry. You can find the let’s plays that I do at youtube.com/runbutton. [song ends] You can find all of us by listening to Friends at the Table and going to friendsatthetable.cash to support this show, to support Friends at the Table, to support all the stuff that we do on twitch.tv/friendsatthetable or youtube.com/friendsatthetable where all the Twitch stuff goes after it’s lived and died live. [Dre chuckles] With me, as always, is Jack de Quidt. Hi, Jack.
Jack: Hi, Keith. I’m Jack. I am so tired. I feel like the space behind my eyes has just been removed and there's sort of, like, [Sylvia: Good lord.] soft fluff in there instead.
Dre: Oh.
[drum sting]
Jack: Whoa. [Keith laughs] Who’s doing—
Dre: You got that cotton candy brain, Jack.
Jack: Who’s doing bullshit with the soundboard?
Sylvia: Who did that?
Jack: You can find—
Keith: [blatantly lying] Uh, yeah, I don't know who did that.
Sylvia: Fuck you, Keith. [Dre laughs]
Jack: You can find me on Cohost at @jdq.
Dre: Evil Keith! [Keith chuckles]
Jack: And you can get any of the music featured on the show at notquitereal.bandcamp.com. Keith saw me saying, “I'm exhausted,” and was like, “I'm going to break their mental state.” [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Keith is your Biscuit.
Jack: Oh, yeah, it’s true.
Sylvia: Also, I don't think the people are going to know about Evil Keith when this drops. I think that’s going to be later.
Keith: Mm…
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Oh, they'll know about Evil Keith in their soul.
Keith: It’s going to be close, because this’ll be, like, three weeks from now.
Sylvia: Yeah, this is like…okay.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay, we'll see.
Keith: We've got an episode coming out on Tuesday, and then two more Tuesdays after that will be this.
Sylvia: Hey. You should listen to Friends at the Table.
Keith: You should listen to Friends at the Table, learn about Evil Keith, which is me now. Hahahaha. [Sylvia laughs] Also with me is Sylvi Bullet.
Sylvia: Hey, I'm Sylvi. You can find me everywhere at @SYLVIBULLET. That’s Sylvi spelled without the E, Taking Back Sunday style. [Dre chuckles] Also check out the— did we mention the YouTube? You mentioned the YouTube already.
Keith: I did, yeah.
Sylvia: I don't have anything else to plug, then. 
Keith: All right. And Andrew Lee Swan.
Dre: [laughing] I can't believe you just made that reference, Sylvi. 
Sylvia: Of course I did.
Dre: Hey, you can find me on Twitter at @swandre3000. If you want to be super refreshed like me drinking out of this beautiful, beautiful cup, you can buy one at friendsatthetable.shop. 
Keith: The cup’s great.
Sylvia: Oh, the cup’s beautiful.
Keith: I got two of them, and I drank out of it for the first time a couple days ago, and I loved it.
Dre: Things just taste better.
Sylvia: I'm a moron who still hasn't ordered one. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Oh my god. Yeah, I already got all my stuff. My candle came in. 
Sylvia: I know.
Keith: My shirt came in. My tote bag came in.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: We don't need to—
Keith: All separately. That’s the downside. Super annoying.
Dre: You know, I could turn off my lights, and I could just record by candlelight with my official Friends at the Table candle.
Keith: Ooh. [chuckles] 
Sylvia: We don't need to be mean about it.
Keith: No, but we can.
Dre: I would go to sleep, because, like Jack, I am also tired. [laughs] If I was just doing this by candlelight.
Summary [0:03:16]
Keith: All right. Since everybody is tired today, let’s get on with the episode. We had three for today, and remind me, did I say we went back to school last time? Did I say that?
Sylvia: I think you might have said that we were going back to school.
Keith: We were going back? Okay. We are back to school.
Sylvia: We are fully back to school.
Dre: Uh huh.
Keith: We learned where Wing gets his teaching style from. [Sylvia laughs] Or at least some parts of his teaching style. We learn about Ko, Ken, Shu, and Ryu. We'll get into what those are. We get some Ging lore. We learn a little bit about this knockoff Hisoka: Binolt, the scissors pervert. But really there's two big things that happen in these episodes. First, Killua leaves the island in the middle of training to retake the Hunter Exam, something that every time it happens, I'm like, “Oh yeah, I forgot Killua, like, wants to retake the Hunter Exam.” And the Bomber shows up. The Bomber reveals his evil plan.
Sylvia: [laughs quietly] The fucking Bomber.
Keith: Which is essentially to steal all the cards from, like, the good guy team that Gon and Killua declined to be part of. It’s bad. The Bomber’s an evil guy. He’s very evil, and he’s having a blast being evil.
Dre: Oh.
Jack: Ooh.
Dre: Ohh.
[drum sting]
[Sylvia laughs]
Jack: We have to stop that.
Dre: I only—
Sylvia: Oh, having a blast! Keith!
Keith: Right, there you go.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't say this last time we recorded, but I only think of Genthru, a.k.a. the Bomber, as Walmart brand Vash the Stampede.
Sylvia: Oh, he’s Fred from Scooby-Doo to me.
Dre: Oh, he’s— okay. He’s like both. [audibly spills drink] Oh, fuck.
Keith: He Kabuto from Naruto to me, because I think they maybe even share the…
Sylvia: Oh, a little.
Dre: Oh!
Keith: Well, they share a sort of…Genthru has a mini plot arc that is very similar to Kabuto, and then I think that they might share a voice actor in the dub, but I'm not 100% sure on that.
Jack: Dre, did you just tip your Friends at the Table mug directly over your desk?
Dre: Shut up, Jack!
Sylvia: Wow!
Dre: You're gonna ruin the sales! [laughs] 
Jack: Well—
Sylvia: Jack’s En felt it happening.
Jack: Oh, yeah, exactly. 
Keith: [laughs] That’s a very sharp En.
Sylvia: It goes through the internet.
Dre: It’s fine. I got a towel. Everything’s okay. [laughs] 
Keith: Okay.
Jack: Okay, good. We can take a moment if you want, but.
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: No, it’s fine. It’s fine. I don't need this keyboard.
Episode 63 [0:05:36]
Jack: So, this is a short little run of episodes, and as usual, when Togashi begins a little run, I wasn't terribly impressed with the first episode here as things were spinning up, especially because we learn that Biscuit is a former teacher of Mr. Wing, whom she refers to as a little boy with messy hair and glasses.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Who never tucks in his shirt.
Jack: Who never tucks in his shirt. And, like Keith said, Biscuit then just begins essentially, like…and it gets a little more intense as the episodes go on, but we're straight back to Heavens Arena Nen school, to a certain extent.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: There's a point towards the end of this group of episodes where she is throwing new Nen terms at us with such regularity that I was just sort of rolling my eyes and writing them down.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: But her opening salvo with Binolt, the scissors pervert, who we'll talk about more detail in a second, is actually a really nice twist on Wing’s kind of, like, “Well, let me just draw on a blackboard and explain it all to you,” because she sort of intuits that— first she intuits that if the people in the game are weak to Nen attacks, having gotten so used to playing the card game, Gon and Killua are weak to the card game, because they've gotten used-ish to Nen. But then she turns that even further on its head and says, “You basically don't really understand Nen at all.”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: You know, you got the opening section. And she starts to use, in the same way that Wing used Heavens Arena as a way into teaching the kids Nen fundamentals, Biscuit starts using Greed Island as a way into teaching the kids sort of intermediate Nen. Is that fair to say?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I think that that’s true, and it sort of—
Dre: Yeah. It’s grad school Nen.
Jack: Yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Sort of introduces a world of Nen, like, via the example of Binolt, who we'll introduce in a second, as like, look, if this guy can kill you, and he could, then you have no real shot in an actual Nen fight, which is a very interesting concept and kind of something we've hinted at a little bit that we've noticed that they haven't really been in a real Nen fight.
Jack: No, not really. At least the kind of Nen fights that we saw…well, sort of. No, they've been in one-sided Nen fights. You know, Gido versus Gon or something, but we've never really seen [Dre: Mm.] anything like Hisoka versus Kastro or Zeno and Silva versus Chrollo.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Jack: You know, as like, a full-scale Nen fight. Although Chrollo did very little Nen in that fight; mostly just evaded a lot of Nen from the Zoldycks.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Mm-hmm. Although, the sort of implication of what we learn about Ken and Ryu is that probably those are the things that they were using that whole fight. We just didn't know what to call them.
Jack: Right, yes.
Keith: Or how significant they were.
Jack: And we'll talk about those a bit later, but what Biscuit is essentially building towards is really interesting here, which is that, by the end of this, the kids are fighting using Nen so quickly and so precisely that it looks less like shonen fight choreography and more like the martial arts of, like, a John Wick movie or, like, a Bourne movie, you know?
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Not a lot of leaping around, just lots of extremely precise fast hand-to-hand combat.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And I think it’s—
Keith: It looks a little bit like a toned down version of what they'll do in Dragon Ball Z when they, like, make everyone blur fighty.
Sylvia: That’s what I thought too. 
Keith: It was like…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Mm, mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s at a speed that you can actually, like, witness the combat though.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Which I think is, like, a really distinct choice.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: But we actually start by underplaying the Nen pretty quickly. Biscuit sort of senses and all three of them sense…there’s just this great inset shot of, like, a pair of scissors closing, and they sense that they're being stalked by this other Hunter. And the kids wonder why they were able to see this Hunter, and Biscuit says, “He let a tiny bit of his bloodlust leak out,” and there's Nen language for this. You know, she could have said, like, [Sylvia: Yeah.] “I sensed his Ren,” or something. But I love that at the beginning of this extended Nen school run of episodes, she actually starts from, like, talking about it in its most basic terms. He let a bit of his bloodlust, you know, leak out.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And I think that’s really interesting. She immediately does a ruse that I think Gon and Killua have used before, right? Which is, like, a fake fight or a fake disagreement?
Keith: Yes. Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: They kind of, without foregrounding this to them at all, Biscuit just starts kind of screaming at Gon and Killua. 
Sylvia: It’s so funny. [Dre and Keith laugh]
Dre: Well, and slaps Killua, right?
Keith: Slaps Killua pretty hard, which I thought was funny, and then, like, Killua’s still off board of the whole Biscuit idea, is like, not into her being their teacher, [Sylvia: Yeah.] is not into her being around. That does change soon after this, but…
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Keith: This is the part— he goes, “That woman’s pretty amazing. I was on high alert so I'd be ready for anything. Even so, I didn't realize what she’d done until my cheek was already stinging.” And this is just part of a ploy to get Binolt to follow her so that they can double back and basically watch her beat the shit out of him. [Dre laughs]
Jack: Yeah. Binolt sort of creeps up, and he cuts off one of Biscuit’s little sort of ponytail things. It’s really creepy. He’s really, really creepy.
Sylvia: He’s so gross.
Dre: Yeah, he’s very gross.
Sylvia: He eats the hair.
Keith: And then he just keeps it for— yeah, he eats the hair. He puts the hair—
Sylvia: He eats the hair. He’s a—
Keith: One of his powers is that he can eat someone’s hair and learn basically everything about them.
Dre: Like, everything about them.
Sylvia: This guy feels like a…
Keith: He gets a stat sheet.
Sylvia: Like, not to be like, “Oh my god, a JoJo reference,” but this guy does feel like a part one JoJo character to me. Like…
Jack: I wrote this down too. There's actually two JoJo characters in this little run of episodes.
Keith: In different ways to me, yeah.
Jack: I think Bomber is also a JoJo character.
Sylvia: Uh huh. Oh, yeah. [laughs] 
Jack: He’s really—
Keith: Wait, sorry, who?
Jack: The Bomber.
Keith: Oh, yes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Jack: He’s really— he’s animated really well. He has this kind of, like, sharp teeth, sharp silhouette. He has a load of scissors in, like, a holster on his waist. There is something, like, leering and creepy about him that is only accentuated by this kind of, like, gross deployment of language with the fact that he thinks this is a kid.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Jack: He says—
Sylvia: I mean, you said— was it Keith who said “knockoff Hisoka” earlier?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: It’s definite— hey, in multiple ways.
Jack: Yeah. He eats the hair to, quote, “learn things about the owner’s body they don't even know about themselves,” which is just gross as shit.
Keith: Yeah. And then he immediately learns that Bisky is not a child. She’s, like, what, 56 years old?
Sylvia: 57.
Jack: She’s 57 years old.
Keith: 57 years old, yeah. And then realizes how strong she is, and then his whole demeanor changes.
Sylvia: It’s really funny too.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It’s so funny. There's a really—
Keith: He takes— oh, go ahead.
Jack: There's a really neat little play that happens briefly here in the way that nobody in this world is prepared for these extremely powerful children that keep showing up.
Keith: Oh, right.
Jack: But at the same time, they're very blasé about it, right? You know, it’s like, “This little boy has gotten to floor whatever of Heavens Arena!” You know, we've talked in the past before about if we met a child as powerful as, you know, Killua or Gon, they would be the most famous child in the world.
Keith: Right.
Dre: Yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: But these are children that got into Greed Island, so they're not—
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: I wrote here, yeah, “Scissors maniac not threatened by children (Hunter’s Mistake).”
Jack: Yeah. It is a Hunter’s Mistake, because then there's the inversion of it, right? Which is that, like, this extremely powerful person isn't actually a child.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Jack: And I feel that, like—
Keith: With Nen, not only can a child be extremely powerful, but a not-child can look like a child.
Jack: And this is a stock character.
Sylvia: Yeah, I need her skincare routine, by the way. Bisky, please tell me what you're using.
Jack: Oh. She’d just be like—
Keith: Nen cream.
Jack: God, would she tell you? She would tell you.
Sylvia: I think she would.
Jack: But she’d do it in, like, a deeply weird way.
Keith: I think she does, actually.
Sylvia: I would hope that Bisky’s a girl’s girl. She does tell you, yeah.
Keith: She does tell you.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Trust me, I remember.
Keith: We'll get there. She tells you. [Keith and Dre laugh]
Jack: But yeah, Biscuit kicks the absolutely shit out of him, using a very similar sort of fighting style as Netero, this very acrobatic but very, like, precise.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: I keep thinking about the way Netero— did he fight with one hand behind his back, or did he…?
Sylvia: He…
Jack: He never moved off one foot or something?
Sylvia: It was a bit of both, I think, wasn't it? Oh, no, it was Hisoka who didn't move from a spot, and then it was…Keith, I don't know what you're referring to in our groupchat.
Keith: The guy.
Sylvia: Which guy?
Keith: You have it. It’s the only thing you post in there.
Dre: Oh, the “he knows” guy from Batman, Sylvi.
Sylvia: OH! My fucking god. I'm dumb as fuck. Sorry. [Keith, Dre, and Jack laugh] I didn't know. I thought were talking about the image up above that I did post earlier.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: We're all tired. We talked about this.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I'm fine. I'm doing great.
Sylvia: Fuck, what was I saying?
Jack: But yeah, she fights him in a traditional way.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: She doesn't use Nen. In fact, she says, “I would have killed you if this had been a battle of Nen.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. And that’s pretty obvious. I mean, Gon and Killua are back already. They wanted to watch the fight, and they get there in time to see Bisky sort of flip Binolt upside down and then jab him in the back and send him flying, and their first thought was, “Mm, she made him look weak, but we can tell he’s not.”
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Like, he’s strong. She’s just way stronger.
Dre: The thing that Bisky said about him that, like, stood out to me, which seemed very different to how— I mean, these three episodes are especially, like, okay, Biscuit’s original character is very different from who she actually is, but like, when the guy— when Binolt asks her, like, “Hey, can we spar?” she goes, “Oh, okay, you're not total trash.”
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: And at first I read that as, like, “Oh, you're not a trash, like, person. Like, you're not just this, like, serial killer.” But I'm wondering, based on further stuff in this episode and later episodes, is she also saying like, “Oh, you're not trash,” as in, like, “You have potential,” or “Oh, you could be useful.”
Sylvia: There's a mention of Binolt’s potential.
Keith: Yeah, she does mention that he has much lower potential than Gon and Killua.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I did read it as that, oh, he’s not just, like, a murderous freak. He’s, like, willing to [Dre: Yeah.] put his murderous freak-ness on hold [Sylvia: Yeah.] in order to have a respectable bout.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Same here.
Keith: Does anybody— did we catch the name of his special move, by the way?
Sylvia: Uh…
Dre: Oh, did I write it down?
Jack: I just wrote down “Scissor Hands,” but I think it’s longer than that.
Keith: It’s Scissor Hands/Barber Slasher.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Very, very funny.
Keith: And then it cuts to him doing, like, a very phallic thing with the scissors.
Sylvia: Yeah, of course it does.
Jack: He has a great—
Sylvia: Togashi’s a little pervert. Just, can we lay that out there? Togashi’s a little pervert sometimes.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Like…kind of gets unnoticed.
Keith: Well, he’s creating a pervert.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Sure.
Sylvia: You know.
Jack: He has a really great look that, when the character is, like, in the language of the show, becoming insane with his bloodlust or whatever, his face is drawn in a different way. He has these very round eyes all of a sudden.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And it is interesting. It reminds me of how rarely Hisoka is actually drawn in a mode similar to that. Hisoka is usually keeping all of this malice and all of this, like, vile sexual energy [Keith: Yeah.] bubbling under the surface so we only sometimes—
Keith: With a couple wild exceptions.
Jack: There's that great moment where he charges the camera, towards the end of the Hunter Exam.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: When he kills that lady, the old Ghibli lady.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: That’s that great shot where his eyes are, like, bloodshot. But yeah, compared to Binolt, Hisoka is usually— he’s not doing a very good job of keeping it sort of, like, on the down low, but he can sort of glide through menacingly, whereas Binolt is just going to charge you with scissors and be creepy.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I wrote down here that Killua gets punched into the sky for a second time.
Sylvia: Yep.
Jack: I don't remember why.
Keith: Calls her a hag. Again. 
Jack: Yep, calls her a hag. Okay. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: I think it’s baba in the original language.
Keith: Oh, right. So, in the dub, what happens is she says that she doesn't want to be called Miss Bisky but it’s okay if you don't want to call her Bisky, you can call her Lady Bisky. And then Killua says, “I'd rather call you hag,” and then he gets punched again.
Sylvia: And in the Japanese, I think she’s like, “Call me Bisky-chama,” or something like that.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Oh.
Sylvia: Which is, like, a much more cutesy honorific, is my understanding.
Dre: [sighs] I do love Lady Bisky as just a title. [Keith chuckles]
Sylvia: Yeah. We can start calling her that.
Dre: And then Gon calling her, “Lady Bisky!” [Jack chuckles]
Keith: So, this is where she reveals a couple things. She’s here to win the game, but she’s also here to get what she has called Blue Planet, which is a card [Sylvia: Yeah.] that is basically a giant blue gemstone, like a spherical diamond thing.
Sylvia: Because she’s, like, a jewel hunter, right? Like, that’s been the implication.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah, she’s out for treasure. She likes treasure.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Sort of like she’s a pirate.
Jack: She…yeah, and lots of jewel imagery throughout. She repeatedly refers to Gon and Killua as, like, precious stones that need to be polished.
Keith: Uh huh.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: And she gives them their own precious stones. We'll talk about this in a little bit. But I also think about the way that Togashi talks about— and I think that this is probably just the language of— he has drawn a world that is full of treasures, like, often literal treasures, and as such, he is fascinated with things that are very beautiful colors. You know, we talk about the red of the Kurta eyes. All the stuff with…oh, what was that fellow called? The auction man. [cross] Zepile.
Sylvia: [cross] Zepile?
[0:20:08]
Jack: Yeah. About, like, appraising beauty and things like that.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: And then, over and over in these episodes, Biscuit is not only looking for the Blue Planet, but she is like, Gon is a diamond and Killua is a sapphire.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It’s like a hallmark of Togashi writing this series so far, I think.
Keith: It does not reflect well on her in those moments.
Jack: No. Let’s talk about this now.
Keith: Okay, yes.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: She is, in a kind of astonishing way, objectifying Gon and Killua as, like, literally gemstones that she wants to temper and cut and, like, polish.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Does this remind you of anybody, Keith?
Keith: Yeah, this is such a Hisoka moment from her. 
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Keith: It’s like, she is 90% of the way to Hisoka. She says, “Why does my heart skip a beat whenever I see something waiting to be polished?” And I use the dub language here, because I think it’s more illustrative of how weird of a comment this is. “I'm going to train them so hard.”
Dre: Yeah. I…but like, I think that’s not just Hisoka. I feel like that is, like, every adult mentor that these kids meet—
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: —go, “Wow, these kids are really fucking strong. That’s scary and probably means they're super traumatized. But!”
Sylvia: “I'm gonna do more!” 
Dre: Yeah, exactly! 
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: It’s like their lust for power and creating more powerful people overrides their humanity.
Keith: Yeah, I don't think— this is why I think it’s very interesting that she reveals that she was Wing’s teacher, because I don't see Wing as like that.
Dre: Wing is the closest we've got to not doing that, but like—
Keith: Wing is definitely—
Dre: He still did do all that stuff [Sylvia: Yeah.] and then was like, “Oh man, I don't know if I should have done that. I might have put some bad things in motion.”
Keith: I think that— the truth is that Wing doesn't do— his actions aren't any different than, like, Bisky’s actions here, but he is the whole time at least framing it as: if I don't help these kids, they're going to get themselves fucking killed.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Bisky does have a little bit of that. Like, everything out here can kill you right now. You can't even beat these level D things, and there's way more strong things out here than level D.
Dre: [chuckles] Yeah. Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Like, they would have been killed by Binolt if she wasn't there is kind of her point. But she’s so much more focused on “I want to make them stronger. I want to—” She basically tortures them in these episodes.
Jack: Yeah, let me—
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: She does. Oh, not just them. 
Keith: [laughs] Right, sure. Not just them.
Jack: Oh, yeah, we'll get there.
Dre: Yeah, no, she tortures Binolt too, yeah.
Sylvia: The shit that happens to Binolt is upsetting to me.
Jack: Yeah. I think this Bisky stuff about the gems really snapped into place a lot of what you were talking about, Sylvi, as soon as Wing arrived and you sort of started to lay out—
Sylvia: When I planted my seeds of deception to get to this conversation months later?
Keith: Right. I did the same thing but from the other side.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: It’s almost as if the three of you have seen this show before.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s shocking.
Keith: Sometimes twice.
Sylvia: [laughs] Sorry. Go ahead, Jack. I didn't mean to…
Jack: It’s really, you know, I think you're right, in that, like, this is a way the show talks about teachers and often talks about sort of adults generally, but I think that Biscuit is the furthest that we have seen them push it towards.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It’s not necessarily saying, like— it’s not that Togashi is saying, “Now, listen, Biscuit is evil, but sometimes you have to work with evil people.” It’s more that he’s saying, “There is a kind of lens that certain teachers put their pupils under,” [Keith: Yeah.] and Biscuit is the closest we have seen to someone like Hisoka. Let me read some more Biscuit quotes here.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Sure.
Sylvia: Please do.
Jack: She says, “Gon is a gem in the rough. If properly cut through training, he can be completely transformed.” This is—
Sylvia: Isn't that basically a direct quote from Hisoka about—? Like, I sort of got—
Jack: Hisoka uses—
Sylvia: Oh, no, he uses the unripe fruit metaphor a lot.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I'm sorry.
Jack: Yeah, Hisoka uses plant language a lot [Sylvia: Yeah.] with Gon, which is remarkable. I think there's something really interesting about Hisoka and Biscuit saying basically the same thing but one with like—
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: With different metaphors.
Jack: Using different metaphors.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: We get this beautiful photography of cutting through gems— not slicing. I mean like a camera cutting through an image of a gem to the characters eyes, the sapphire and Killua’s blue eyes. She says, “Killua may look unstable, but apply the right amount of heat, and he can achieve permanent strength.” And then, towards the end of the episode, talking about Gon, she says—not to him; I think she’s just thinking this—she says, “You are a flawless specimen, but that purity could make it a delicate balancing act.” It’s really, really interesting.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And like you said, this is not just sort of mental stuff, because at this point, with Binolt unconscious on the floor— I thought he was dead for a bit, but he’s not dead.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Biscuit reveals what her first sort of training game is. Does anyone want to talk about this?
Sylvia: Is it the—? Wait.
Dre: It’s the pit, right?
Keith: This is the game with Binolt, yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, this is the pit.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Uh, yeah. She puts all three of them in a pit. [Keith laughs]
Jack: Yeah. What’s the rules of the pit?
Sylvia: [imitating shouting] Monkey see, monkey do! [Dre laughs]
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: Sorry.
Dre: And then she says, “Hey, in this pit, all you can do is crowd kill. That’s it.”
Sylvia: Yeah. [Keith and Dre laugh]
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: No, she says what? She put him in the pit. She says, “You're gonna be in here for two weeks, and Binolt, if you can kill these kids, then you can leave.”
Sylvia: Yeah. “If you try to leave before that, I'll kill you.”
Dre: “I'll kill you.”
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: And then—
Sylvia: And if you two, Gon and Killua, leave, you'll be punished.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Sorry.
Dre: Or if you can't beat him within the two weeks.
Keith: Right.
Sylvia: Right, yeah.
Dre: It seems to be implying that she’s saying “I want you to kill him within these two weeks.”
Jack: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: She says he has to evade their attacks for two weeks. If he falls unconscious, Biscuit will kill him. You are not allowed to leave this crater. And in a very sort of Shalnark move, she just sits down on the edge of the crater.
Sylvia: Who is the real serial killer here? 
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: This is what I'm asking. [Jack and Sylvia laugh]
Dre: Uh huh.
Keith: It does feel like the scene where all the Phantom Troupe is playing Go Fish, watching Uvo kill scores of the mafia community.
Sylvia: To me, it feels like the Saw franchise of films. [Keith and Jack laugh]
Dre: Sure.
Sylvia: And she is Jigsaw.
Jack: There's a real— I mean, this is one of the ways that she is demonstrating the, like, Nen master sort of classical depiction, right? Where it’s like, Nen masters, when they are in training mode, seem to have limitless patience on their terms. They're very impatient when things aren't going their way, but you know. She just sits down for two weeks, and she’s like, “This will take as long as it takes. I am very calm here.”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: “I'm not fighting. I'm just gonna watch.”
Keith: Real quick, the thing— just to hit this before we go deeper into her training. This is where she reveals that she taught Ging. Or, sorry, that she taught Wing and then where Gon says, “I’m here to find my dad. His name is Ging. He made this game,” and she says, “Oh, Ging, I know him. He’s famous.”
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: “Chairman Netero once said he was one of the top five Nen users in the world.”
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: I hate this motherfucker so much. [Keith, Jack, and Dre laugh]
Jack: Get his ass.
Sylvia: I hate him. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: And so Bisky officially becomes their teacher, through the transitive property of “I taught Wing, so I teach you.”
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Is that how it works generally in shonen?
Sylvia: Yep. No. Oh, in shonen?
Keith: No.
Sylvia: Uh, it has before.
Dre: Probably.
Keith: It’s not that it doesn't work that way. It’s just a very unique situation.
Sylvia: Well, doesn't that happen in Naruto?
Keith: Does that happen in Naruto?
Sylvia: Isn't Jiraiya…or am I…?
Keith: It sort of happens with Jiraiya. Jiraiya taught—
Sylvia: Yeah. I felt like there was a Naruto connection like that.
Keith: Yeah. I think it does happen in Naruto. Jiraiya taught Kakashi, right?
Dre: And I guess—
Sylvia: I'm pretty sure. Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: In Dragon Ball, at least in Z, it’s not so much that you go from, like, the teacher to the teacher’s teacher, but it’s like, “Oh, I learned this from this god. Oh, wait, there's a more stronger god somewhere? Okay, I guess I'll go learn from that god.”
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Dre: And it just kind of keeps going that way.
Sylvia: Yeah. There is definite—
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Biscuit kind of power scales a little bit, both herself and the two of them, during this episode. [laughs quietly]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. So, they're in the pit.
Jack: “Gon,” says Killua.
Keith: Yes.
Jack: “Gon, let’s make this a battle of attrition.” Killua’s proposal is just throw rocks at this guy. The show knows exactly how weird and cruel this is and it underscores it by the fact that Binolt—and we haven't really talked about this—is, like, visibly suffering. 
Sylvia: Yes.
Jack: Bisky fucked him up during her initial—
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Broke a few ribs, right?
Keith: And maybe his leg.
Dre: Probably.
Keith: He’s, like, not moving from the center of the pit. I think he’s, like—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: His leg hurts or something?
Jack: Yeah, but Gon, of course, deliberately misinterprets Killua’s rock throwing, uses his Gon’s Punch to explode a huge rock and kind of darts closer, using the rock as a shield. This is a callback to the floor tiles in Heavens Arena.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Which I really love, because those fights with the Nen initiates in Heavens Arena were the sort of initial whetstone for Gon and Killua to test their, like, proto-Nen abilities.
Sylvia: Yeah. Also, first of many Gon throwing rocks moments. 
Keith: Yeah. [laughs] 
Jack: Yeah, Gon spends most of these episodes throwing rocks.
Sylvia: He is a rock type Pokémon.
Dre: Hmm.
Jack: This is a very rock-focused episode. And I was a little disappointed that we're in Greed Island— 
Mm-hmm.
Jack: This is Togashi doing a trick again, right? Because it’s like, [Sylvia laughs] “Oh, we're in Heavens Arena, so I'm excited to see some tournaments.” No. “Oh, we're in Greed Island. I mean excited to see some, like, weird gameplay.” No.
Keith: They say, “No. We're not doing the game.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: We're deliberately ignoring the game. [chuckles] It’s so funny.
Jack: Rock fights in the desert.
Keith: The rest of Hunter × Hunter is already a game.
Dre: It’s almost like that’s what everyone inside Greed Island doing too, and that’s why Greed Island is bad.
Jack: Ohh.
Keith: Damn. They're ignoring the game.
Jack: They're ignoring the game. Then, eventually, they sort of get very close to beating him. Bisky is really surprised. She’s like, “They're going to do this in one night. I thought it was going to take them two weeks.”
Keith: And it essentially happens in real time. They beat him, like, in 15 minutes.
Jack: Yeah. But Gon sort of calls off the practice, and he says, “Look, stopping now would be a waste.”
Sylvia: Let’s torture him more. [Keith laughs]
Jack: He says to Binolt, “You should get some rest.”
Keith: Yes. Heal back up, so that we can beat the shit out of you again. Yeah, Gon stops Killua from basically killing Binolt with a big punch to the head and is like, “No, no, no. Let’s train until we can both beat him individually, and also we should let him heal up so that he’s harder.”
Jack: There’s a great moment where you can already see their sort of Gyo—that’s the Nen power of looking—sharpening as they're all sort of sleeping [Sylvia laughs quietly] and Binolt lifts his head up, sort of wakes up, beginning to try and attack the two of them, and Gon and Killua both just, like, turn and look at him.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: You know, they sense that that was coming. We get little flashbacks throughout these episodes. Sort of Togashi— Togashi wants to put Binolt on a really truncated arc.
Keith: Yes. [laughs] It’s really funny!
Sylvia: It’s super quick.
Jack: It’s made so funny by the fact that his, like, beginning point: he’s a serial killer who’s going to murder them.
Keith: Yes.
Jack: And his end point—
Keith: And he’s excited especially that they're children.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: And his end point: they have forgiven him and sent him on a path to, like, atone for his sins and get better.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I'm off to go to prison. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: I wrote, “Gon heals Binolt’s trauma by thanking him for helping them train. He then decides to turn himself in to the authorities.”
Jack: Yeah. So, the beginning and end point of this are, like, you know, that’s the natural beginning and end point for this kind of arc if that’s what you want to do. Where it’s extremely funny is that Togashi fills the entire mid point of that arc, everything between those two points, with either extended torture of him in the present or he’s a poor little orphan in the past. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And that’s it. [laughs] Those are the only two moves that they can do.
Sylvia: The faces that the people pull in his flashback are so funny, though.
Dre: Oh my god.
Keith: The flashback’s so funny. It is like an episode-long arc that they stuff into about 4.5 minutes. [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And so we get a flashback. Basically the flashback is: he’s a little poor orphan who’s on the street. Someone drops their wallet. He selflessly returns the wallet, and the rich people who drop the wallet are disgusted by him and beat him to an inch of his life, because they're like…I don't know if they think that he was running a scam where, you know, you steal a wallet, then you return it for a reward, or if they were just evil people. I don't think they're 100% clear on that.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: But there just happens to be, like, broken scissors on the ground. I think the implication is that he killed those people with the scissors, right?
Sylvia: Yep.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: I thought so.
Keith: Yeah, so he turns into a murderer. And then he wakes up, gets the shit beat out of him more, and then Gon says “thank you,” like the rich man didn't and fixes his trauma.
Jack: Right, right. He’s going to ask Gon to kill him, or he does ask Gon to kill him.
Keith: He does, yeah. Yeah.
Jack: And Gon refuses. He says, “We improved a lot with your help,” even though he was a spectacular antagonist. This is extremely funny. The pace that that is a lot moving is so funny.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: But it did make me think a lot of some of the ways that Gon talks about Hisoka.
Keith: Uh huh.
Jack: Gon has a little bit more of, like, “Hey, I felt weird and bad when I was interacting with Hisoka,” but he also regularly— remember when Gon will just, like, vibrate with excitement [Keith: Yeah.] at the chance to fight and probably lose to Hisoka?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yep.
Jack: Gon definitely has this sensation of, like, I need to be grateful to even my enemies because they have sharpened me.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Keith: It’s easy to take this, like, little section and throw it out as just, like, kind of a weak bit of writing and that is an inconsequential way to get them a little bit stronger, but it does speak a lot actually to Gon’s character here.
Sylvia: There's a lot— like, this training arc, I think, is like a really good insight into both Gon and Killua.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Do you think this is an example of Biscuit saying that, like, Gon’s purity could be a problem?
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: I think it happens right after this. Yeah, I think that that—
Dre: Okay.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: That that was her response to that.
Jack: Yeah. That’s absolutely…
Dre: Oh, yeah, you're right. You're right. I forgot the order that that happened in, but yeah.
Keith: So, they go to Masadora, which is the main city.
Jack: Oh my god. Masadora looks normal, right?
Dre: It’s cool as fuck! Yeah, no, it looks like a normal-ass city.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Okay. Now—
Sylvia: I live— this just looks like Toronto to me. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Ohh.
[0:35:00]
Jack: This is going to be tricky to describe, because it looks nothing like we have seen in the show before and frankly is—
Keith: Can I tell you right now? I fully forget what Masadora looks like. I'm opening the show so that I can see it again.
Jack: It is singular looking so far. It is— bear with me here. What did I write down? It is an incredibly colorful series of globes, orbs, marbles, candy canes, and lollipops, sort of floating [Sylvia: Yeah.] and orbiting and tied to the ground. It is shiny and colorful but not in a sci-fi way.
Keith: Oh, yeah. [laughs] 
Jack: Instead in, like, a bizarre candy shop way?
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, it’s got candy cane jellyfish, like, floating in the sky.
Sylvia: This has…there’s some specific stuff in Dragon Ball Z this really reminds me of. Some, like, spirit world stuff.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Uh huh.
Sylvia: I don't know if anybody is familiar with the Janemba stuff.
Dre: Oh, yeah. Oh, fuck yeah I am, dawg.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Jack chuckles]
Keith: Wait, sorry, which stuff?
Sylvia: Janemba.
Dre: Janemba.
Sylvia: I mostly know it from the fighting games, but there was a movie.
Jack: I'm looking this up. Janemba.
Dre: That’s where Gogeta comes from.
Keith: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. But there's a lot of this sort of, like, weird— to me, it always looked like jellybeans.
Jack: Yeah. It really does look like jellybeans.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: So cool looking.
Sylvia: Here. I think this is a decent screenshot to sort of see where I'm coming from. Just, like, this sort of, like, floating, colorful, bright Easter egg color palette orbs and stuff.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: There's this great moment when we get into Masadora a little bit later and you can see that the buildings are shaped like weird teddy bear heads or, like, bunny heads. [Dre laughs]
Keith: Yeah, there's— one of the buildings looks like the bunny lollipop that Killua’s always eating.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: It’s great. It’s such a nice piece of art direction that I was not expecting remotely.
Keith: I totally forgot about this. [laughs quietly] 
Dre: I think in my notes I wrote down that it looks like Candyland threw up on a Dragon Quest town.
Keith: Yeah. Sure.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah.
Keith: Oh, there's also this, like— oh, this, like, establishing shot of it here has, mm, I'm gonna say, like, two or three dozen buildings that are all, like, big candy buildings, and then it has one building that looks like a Capsule Corp building. It looks just like a Dragon Ball Z building. [Keith and Dre chuckles]
Jack: Yeah, it’s just come from Yorknew City or something.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It’s really weird.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: But of course they've gone to Masadora actually just so that Bisky can buy four or five cards that she needs for the next training, and then they have to run all the way back.
Keith: Oh, yeah, this next training is so funny.
Jack: The punchline to, like, Biscuit doggedly running after Gon and Killua, and Killua saying, “Ah, she’ll get tired when the bandits attack,” is now just great.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: As Biscuit is making them run all over Greed Island. She’s not breaking a sweat. Over the course of this arc, Gon and Killua, who, again, lost their clothes in the sequence with the bandit last time, so are just wearing white undershirts.
Sylvia: Are just in their tanktops. Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, exactly.
Dre: Mm-hmm. Just chilling.
Jack: They are just constantly getting, like, grubbier and grubbier, [Keith and Dre laugh] and more of their clothes are getting more and more torn. They're getting, like, scratches and stains on. They end up looking like Batman at the end of an Arkham Asylum game, just, like, completely shredded. And Biscuit— oh, throughout all of this, Biscuit still has one of her little ponytails missing, and she hasn't restyled her hair to account for it, so she’s, like, asymmetrical for this whole thing. 
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: She looks really good.
Sylvia: There's something about it that really grates on me. [Keith laughs]
Jack: Do you just want the character to be symmetrical again?
Sylvia: I love Biscuit. No, I love— it doesn't affect me in terms of, like, how I feel about Biscuit as a character. I think she’s really interesting and really fun, but just looking at her, I'm like, that’s wrong. You need to fix your hair.
Dre: It looks like shit. Yeah.
Sylvia: That’s wrong!
Keith: I will say it’s strange that she let it go undone for so long, knowing how she creates her look.
Sylvia: To be— I can't judge, 'cause I've done this too, where I just forget for a while.
Keith: You've had part of your hair cut off and left it?
Sylvia: Yeah, no. Well, when I was training two kids in the video game island somewhere. [Keith and Jack laugh]
Jack: And you were, like, a kind of faintly malevolent teacher.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Faintly? I mean, yeah. Yeah, it was sometime around when I was— I was gonna show them, like, Ken and Ryu and stuff, [Jack chuckles] but them some freak with some garden shears showed up. It was a whole ordeal. Way more intense than this whole thing we’ve watched. [Jack chuckles]
Keith: So, the real thing that’s happening in this video— or in this, uh— [Sylvia chuckles] in this video.
Jack: In this video? You're sure you doing okay, Keith?
Keith: Sorry, I'm looking at the video.
Sylvia: In this little bit of content here.
Keith: I'm looking at a VLC file of the episode right now.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: The real things happening in this training with the going to Masadora and then back is the next part of their training is to go to Masadora again, but this time through the series of mountains.
Sylvia: It’s so funny.
Jack: She has to go as the crow flies.
Keith: Using the cards which we're actually, like, shovels and, like, wagons to, like, move dirt out of these mountains. [Keith and Dre laugh] It’s so funny. It’s so fucked up.
Jack: She teaches them how to put their Nen aura into the shovels.
Keith: Or, crucially, waits for them to figure it out on their own.
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: And I want to talk more about the actual sort of, like, Nen mechanics that’s happening here a little bit later when what they are doing kind of dawns on me.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Because she really is teaching them fundamentals [Keith: Mm-hmm.] in a really cool way.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: There's a moment later in these episodes where I realized what she was teaching them to do, and that was really neat. But yeah, they put Nen into these shovels and start digging. She calls this a new application of Ten. It’s called Shu.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Which translates to “enfold”. Now, by this point, I am mostly lost in Nen language.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: And I, you know. What is Ten?
Sylvia: That is—
Keith: Ten is manifesting your aura. It is the first step to Ren, which is then amplifying your aura.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s the one that, like…
Keith: It’s the one that Leorio knows.
Jack: Oh, sure. [laughs quietly] 
Dre: Damn.
Sylvia: When Gon stopped using Ten, the spinning tops hurt him more, is a good way to remember it.
Jack: Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Mm, okay.
Sylvia: It’s like the defensive one is kind of how it is in my mind. I have, like, sort of, like, a Disco Elysium stat sheet in my head for Gon and Killua with their Nen is how I picture it. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: I have the Disco Elysium voices that just remind me.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Each one of them says, “By the way, I'm the one that…”
Sylvia: Killua would be the Cuno. [Keith and Jack laugh]
Keith: Yes. Yes, he would.
Jack: “I'm gonna fuck you up!” says Killua. [Sylvia, Keith, and Dre laugh]
Keith: Yeah, so they—
Sylvia: Oh, I can't imagine him with that accent. [Jack laughs quietly]
Keith: So, they reach this harder rock, and this is where Gon has the idea to invent Shu without having heard of it before.
Jack: It’s very Gon.
Keith: But right before this happens is the…
Jack: Oh my god.
Keith: What I'll call the, like, legitimate argument for torture section.
Jack: This is sort of the apotheosis or maybe the nadir of Biscuit’s training.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: How do I explain this? She teaches them—or rather, enforces—a new way that they have to sleep. Her actual words are, [Dre: Oh, yeah.] “You must always sleep in this position.” So, she has them, like, sitting up—not leaning against a thing; I think they are actually sitting—and they are holding a rope that is connected to a pulley that is connected to a rock above their head, so that if they sort of let go of the rope, the rock will fall on their head and wake them back up. And in a really quick montage, we see the kids start to fail at this pretty quickly, and Killua is kind of chill the whole time. He has a really chilling line. He says, “My dad put me through this kind of training all the time.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, Killua’s done this before, so he’s…
Sylvia: Wrote that one down.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: But Gon just gets these really grotesque bruises all over his head, which are gone by the next episode, but it’s grody.
Keith: She’s essentially inflicting—
Sylvia: This boy is made of CTE.
Keith: She’s inflicting, like, hypervigilance onto them. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: She’s, like, giving them PTSD.
Sylvia: It’s fucked!
Keith: It’s insane. Yeah, it’s crazy.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: It is…now, this is the thing about how Bisky is a Hisoka type and what I think specifically it means that that’s true, which is Hisoka is so evil and horrible and so unashamed of being a murderous pervert that Gon and Killua know to stay clear of him. Bisky is, like, sort of the worst case scenario of, like, a Hisoka that is nice enough and not so evil that they're like, “Wow, we should stay away from Bisky. Bisky’s crazy.”
Sylvia: She literally…
Keith: But they should stay away from her. She’s crazy.
Sylvia: She literally pulled the “Oh yeah, I know that adult you trust,” but you didn't check. You just believed— they just believed her.
Keith: Yes.
Sylvia: And it’s true, but you know.
Keith: It is true. Right.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: She does stranger danger the shit out of them.
Keith: Yes.
Jack: As they were digging through the thing back to Masadora, I wrote— you know, the sheer absurdity of what was happening really started to dawn on me, of the like…
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Is this Togashi deconstructing a shonen master, or are shonen masters kind of just like this?
Keith: This is almost exactly the training that Master Roshi puts Goku and Krillin in, in the first season of Dragon Ball.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Oh.
Sylvia: Huh.
Keith: Or the second season.
Jack: Does that show play up the fact that this is bizarro torture in the way that this show does?
Keith: No. It plays it off as funny, because Master Roshi is getting paid to clear these fields and then is making Gon and Killua— or not Gon and Killua. Jeez. Making Goku and Krillin do it for him, so.
Dre: Yeah. I don't know— yeah, I don't know about the “you can't sleep or you'll get a rock dropped on your head,” but very much the, like, ridiculous manual labor as substitute for training [Keith: Yeah.] is definitely a big shonen thing.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: It is the turtle style of training, is like…
Sylvia: It’s The Karate Kid.
Dre: Oh, yeah, 100%. Yeah.
Keith: You basically do manual while wearing a weighted vest, essentially. That’s what…
Jack: Right, but they're not doing manual labor while wearing a weighted vest. She’s having them dig, as the crow flies, like, [Keith: Right.] 90 kilometers through a mountain, and she’s making them— they can't sleep without a rock. Her first test. The first line in these episodes that I wrote down, literally the first line in 63, she says, “You can call me Bisky, but you must obey every word I say.” [Keith and Jack laugh quietly] And that’s Biscuit through and through, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Is it’s like, you can call me an informal nickname, but don't mistake what is happening here.
Keith: This is your manager at work that pretends to be your best friend so that they can dump all their bullshit on you but you have to treat them like a boss still.
Jack: And don't get me wrong: this is extremely funny.
Keith: It’s really funny.
Jack: But part of the reason that it is extremely funny is that the show is not messing about, in terms of saying, like, “Hey, this sucks. [laughing] This woman— this is a crazy woman.” [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Why is she doing this to these children? Because, yeah, Roshi wants to—
Keith: Because she likes to. That’s why!
Jack: Yeah, she’s doing it for the love of the game. [Dre laughs]
Keith: She really likes to do this sort of thing. [Sylvia and Keith laugh]
Jack: There's a throwaway line earlier when she says, “This makes me miss being a Hunter Examiner.”
Keith: Yes!
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Keith: Crazy!
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Which is, like, such a funny insight into a character, where it’s like, she used— she must have been fired or something, right? Like, I can't imagine a situation where, [Keith laughs] like, Bisky willingly left the Hunter Exam.
Sylvia: Well, they rotate every year.
Keith: Yes, they rotate every year.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Oh, do they?
Keith: They pick randomly from all the Hunters, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: So it’s like jury duty.
Sylvia: I think we learned that, right?
Jack: She would fit in so perfectly in the death games.
Sylvia: Oh, mm-hmm.
Keith: If we just think of how we've spent this whole time, like, talking about and thinking about the Hunter Exam and how, like, brutal and cruel it was, and then we meet Bisky, cute little Bisky who’s having a good time making friends with the boys she wants to destroy.
Dre: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Keith: And is, like, looking back fondly on the Hunter Exam. 
Jack: She’s like, this is a good time. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Like, that is truly maniacal. 
Dre: [fondly] Ah, I remember when I sent people to die by being eaten by dinosaurs and shit.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, this is a…
Dre: The good old days.
Keith: This is older—
Sylvia: Damn, I miss being in the swamp. [Dre and Jack laugh]
Keith: It’s older Jigsaw looking back on the murder games fondly.
Jack: Yes!
Keith: Like, “Ah, I remember when I used to hide keys in dead bodies and make people chew their own arms off.”
Jack: There's a really—
Sylvia: [Jigsaw voice] The shotgun collar was a really good one. [Keith and Dre laugh]
Jack: There’s a really funny bit at the beginning of Saw X where [Sylvia laughs] Jigsaw sees a guy who is essentially just doing, like, a small— I can't remember. He’s, like, doing a petty crime or something.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: He’s, like, a janitor. Jigsaw’s just hanging out. And Jigsaw, like, visibly ideates a Saw trap that he put this man in.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Jack: And that is Bisky through and through, just, like, looking at the world.
Sylvia: He, like, straight up sketches it, right? And then he, like, throws it away.
Jack: Yeah, he’s like, “Ah, no.”
Sylvia: That whole movie is so funny, 'cause they're like, “Hey, Jigsaw’s the hero.”
Keith: That’s really funny.
Sylvia: “Jigsaw’s the hero of this one.”
Jack: So, yeah, but I think that if they are not— it sounds like what you're saying is they're not really— Togashi is not really taking apart the shonen master trope.
Keith: So…
Jack: Or if he is, he’s doing it as part of a much larger project. 
Keith: So, what I think— 
Jack: Like, Wing and Hisoka and Netero and Bisky might be him trying to do that.
Keith: I think that, like, the— I think that the, like, shonen deconstruction stuff that happens in Hunter × Hunter is real and is, like, a really important part of it, but I think that one of the important things about Hunter × Hunter is that it is just as often honestly engaging with or earnestly building upon shonen tropes [Sylvia: Uh huh.] as it is also deconstructing them. So, like…everything isn't just one thing, but it’s also not always everything all together.
Jack: Right.
Keith: And one of the fun things about watching the show is thinking through, like, how this stuff is related to particular shonen things that I've seen before and what it feels like to watch it in the context of Hunter × Hunter, where it’s like, do I think that Bisky is, like, an intentional analog to Hisoka? Like, the tolerable Hisoka, the Hisoka that we invite into our home, the vampire who, like, we open the door for? [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Which is what she feels like when I watch the show. Or is she just, like, a funny little psycho? Or…like, I don't—
Sylvia: It’s really hard to. Like, I've seen this show, like, multiple times, and I still haven't been able to quite land on it, you know?
Keith: And I think that that’s one of the powers of the show, is like, how it can— it sort of lives in this, like, quantum state of engaging with and deconstructing different bits of shonen, sometimes simultaneously, sometimes really siloed, sometimes…and I also think that, like Yu Yu Hakusho, it’s an impulse that gets stronger as the show goes on and as Togashi gets, like, less and less interested in his original ideas [Jack: Right.] and starts being like, “Well, what if we, like, really changed things up?” and I think that Bisky is the obvious result of someone being like, looking at someone like Wing or like Master Roshi and being like, “What if we put a little bit of a spin on this ball?” 
Jack: And I think that she— I can't read her as— you described Bisky as the vampire that we invite in, and the stuff with the gems, the way she speaks about the gems. You know, she— she’s using a different metaphor, and that’s not nothing. I think that, you know [Keith: Yes.] use of metaphor there is…
Keith: Using, like, a slightly less obviously sexual metaphor too.
Jack: I don't think that that is something that you can just be like, “Well, I'm not going to pay any attention to that,” but I do think that the parallel is so…
Keith: It’s so strong.
Jack: Front and center.
Keith: Yeah, it really is.
Jack: I do think that if they are not— if Togashi is not taking apart the shonen master, I do think he is absolutely taking a real deconstructive swing at the character, you know, who appears in all genres of fiction, which is the, like, cute little girl who reveals herself to be kind of malicious. Because he gets the base level of that out of his system really quickly. All the great stuff in Bisky’s first episode with the, like, burning fire, and she says, [Keith: Yeah.] you know, “I could wipe the floor with you.” And instead—
Keith: She’s a lot like Elmyra from Tiny Toons.
Jack: [laughing] I haven't seen Tiny Toons.
Sylvia: [laughs] Sure.
Keith: Do with all know Elmyra from Tiny Toons?
Jack: I don't know Elmyra from Tiny Toons.
Sylvia: I know Elmyra from Tiny Toons.
Keith: She’s the little girl who sees the bunnies, and she wants to— they're so cute that she wants to hug them and squeeze them until they die, is essentially…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: But, you know, Togashi takes that initial joke, which is a stock character, and then just spins it right out into, like, [laughs quietly] this woman has an extremely straightforward and fairly violent ideology about how to make her charges improve.
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: Who gets the privilege of being her charges? Uh, she decides.
Keith: She decides, yeah. Seemingly at random. This was truly a whim. She had— she just got, like, a fucking wild hair to follow these boys and then…and judge them—again, much in the way that Hisoka judges people—until she eventually determines them to be worth helping instead of hurting, because that was the alternative. If she didn't train them, she was going to fuck with them.
Dre: [laughs quietly] Ruin their friendship forever.
Keith: She was going to ruin their friendship.
Dre: Do we— is it a wild hair, or is this another example of, like, Nen users attract each other and congregate to each other? Or is it both?
Jack: I think that’s absolutely—
Keith: That’s true, but everyone here is a Nen user.
Dre: That’s true. Yeah.
Jack: But the line is, like, Nen students are drawn to Nen teachers, and the other way around.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: That is true. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Jack: And I think that’s absolutely happening. Can we do a bit of power scaling, please?
Keith: Sure.
Jack: Can we have a little power scaling moment?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Would love to.
Jack: Could Bisky beat Hisoka in a fight? Probably.
Keith: I…
Dre: I don't know.
Keith: I refuse to answer the question. [laughs] 
Sylvia: I…
Jack: Okay. Okay.
Sylvia: I think I'm team Keith with this one.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. That’s fair enough.
Keith: I have a strong impulse, but I decline to reveal.
Jack: Okay. Yeah. Sounds good. Then we shan’t.
Sylvia: You know what? No, I'm gonna answer. I think the clown might take it.
Keith: Oh.
Jack: Wow.
Sylvia: I don't know.
Dre: I genuinely don't know.
Keith: I think the clown takes it.
Jack: It’s worth saying that throughout all of this—and this is fun, because Bisky’s teaching fundamentals—we haven't actually seen her really do any Nen fighting, at all.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: No.
Jack: And this is a little bit like your French teacher patiently teaching you to say, like, “Je m'appelle Jack,” and then one day you hear the French teacher speaking fluent French, and you're like, “Holy shit! Wow!”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: “They can do that!” 
Episode 64 [0:53:48]
Jack: 64. They dig all the way through to Masadora only for Biscuit to send them straight back again. [Dre and Keith laugh]
Keith: Oh, yeah, they've got to— they do it, like, three times, right?
Dre: It’s so good. [laughs] It’s so good.
Jack: It’s really funny. Gon and Killua are essentially— they're grinding, at this point, in the language of video games, except not quite, because what they're doing is they're explicitly working on, like, strategy, and you know, when you grind in a video game, you're not being like, “You know, I really need to learn how to fight the demon lord better, so I'm going to practice my demon lord moves.” You're just trying to get your XP up or whatever.
Keith: They sort of— they're sort of doing a combination of, like— they transition from grinding into, like, unlocking their first few skills on the tree, on the skill tree.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Biscuit lets slip that the game is programmed so that the player is, quote, “guaranteed to get stronger as they progress.” I don't think anybody in this goddamn game has thought for one second about, like, culpability in mechanics or, like, [Sylvia: Uh huh.] how ideology comes through in mechanics.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I don't know if the game has been programmed so that the player is guaranteed to get stronger.
Keith: Well. I mean, can I read that whole quote?
Sylvia: Please do.
Jack: Yeah, go ahead.
Keith: So, we're in 64. We get that bit. They dig through five kilometers of mountains in one day, and how many kilometers is it from where they start to Masadora?
Jack: Is it, like, 80 or something?
Keith: Something like that? Yeah, it’s a lot. So, we're watching a montage of them beating up the monsters that they couldn't beat up pre-Bisky, and Bisky delivers this monologue: “All things considered, the game’s creators we're actually pretty smart.”
Jack: Ha!
Keith: “The game is programmed so that the player is guaranteed to get stronger as they progress, and most likely, it’s all for the purpose of making that child stronger,” looking at Gon.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: “One must battle a wide variety of enemies in Nen combat. The most critical of all battle skills is the ability to think quickly. You have to get used to thinking constantly, until your thoughts are tied to your reflexes. This game is a training regiment to help you achieve that.” It is a pretty just, you know, flat out statement, like, of what is happening, I think.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah, she straight up says Greed Island might have been built to train Gon, which is…
Keith: Yes.
Jack: Hit it, Sylvi.
Keith: This is something that I referenced in the last episode.
Sylvia: I hate this motherfucker. [Jack and Dre laugh]
Keith: This is something I referenced in the last episode when we were talking about Ging, and we conferred, and I decided to hold off, which is, yes, this idea that Greed Island was built for Gon [Sylvia: Yeah.] and that Greed Island, you know, supposedly does not contain a clue of where to find Ging, but what it does do is make sure that Gon is not, like, a little Nen baby.
Jack: People are dying, Ging! 
Keith: [laughs quietly] Sure, sure, but that wasn't him! 
Jack: Ugh.
Keith: He just built the game and left. He’s a, uh… [Jack laughs quietly] Well, this is actually— this is not—
Sylvia: Built a game that could kill his son to prove that his son is worthy of him.
Keith: True.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Hit it, Sylvi!
Keith: What I was gonna say—
Sylvia: I don't want to. [laughs quietly] [Dre laughs] Because I was tabbed out. But I'm mad.
Keith: What I was going to say is that— sorry, Sylvi, you're kind of going in and out, so I keep talking and not realizing you're still going.
Sylvia: No worries. Go ahead. 
Keith: Um, what is it— god, I can't remember what they call it in, like, Christianity when you believe that, like, God built the whole universe and then fucked off. What is that called?
Sylvia: Oh.
Jack: Oh.
Dre: Uh, Catholicism?
Jack: No.
Keith: No. No. [laughter] 
Jack: No, it’s, like, absent something or another.
Keith: Yeah, yeah. Something like that.
Dre: Oh, god, yeah.
Keith: But I was going to say that Ging is like that.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah.
Keith: Ging, like, built the thing and then said, like, “I abandon thee.”
Jack: And the universe was a human child.
Dre: Well…
Keith: Which is how Ging approaches, yeah, everything.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: You know, he’ll found a museum, and then he fucks off. He meets someone and becomes, like, really important to them and then fucks off. He has a son and then fucks off. He builds a—
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Aw, he has an avoidant attachment style. [Jack laughs]
Keith: He does have an avoidant attachment style. He builds the whole game and then fucks off. But that’s not exactly true, because we meet a character here who claims to be one of the creators of the game.
Dre: And I think he— at least in the dub, he calls himself a game master.
Jack: Oh, that’s great.
Keith: He does call himself a game master, yeah.
Jack: My beloved freaks. “Requiem Aranea” plays in the background. [Sylvia laughs] My beloved freaks are going to involve themselves in a bit, but we…
Keith: We'll get there. We'll get there.
Jack: If we start talking about the Phantom Troupe, we'll just be talking about the Phantom Troupe.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, that’s usually how it goes.
[clip of “Riot” begins playing]
Jack: Biscuit thinks— [laughs quietly] This isn't “Requiem Aranea”, is it?
[music ends]
Keith: No, that was “Riot”, but it’s just another one of their songs.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: It’s another good, yeah.
Keith: It does play at a key moment earlier, or, uh, later.
Jack: Biscuit thinks that—
Keith: Oh! I'm sorry.
Jack: Mm-hmm?
Keith: We do have— we have a new song. We have a kind of a new song.
Dre: Oh.
Keith: At the very end of the last episode, we get a song when we check in briefly on…uh, what is happening during this? I'm now not— because I was going to say when we check in very briefly on, like, the good guy squad. Do we check in on them during 63?
Jack: Uh, no. No.
Dre: Which one’s the good guy squad?
Jack: Nickes's team.
Keith: Nickes's team, yeah.
Dre: Oh, okay.
Keith: So, I don't remember what exactly is happening, but towards the end of 63, we get a song that, for some reason, also briefly plays toward the end of Yorknew City, called “Who’s the Bomber?” which is the, like, the Bomber song. 
[clip of “Who’s the Bomber?” begins]
Sylvia: You da Bomber. Not to be confused with the Unabomber. [Dre laughs] I said “you da bomber.”
Jack: Oh.
[music ends]
Keith: Sort of, like, fun…
Jack: Yeah, this is sort of like a ‘70s spy sort of, like, mystery thing.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It’s very— yeah, it’s very ‘70s, like, mystery kind of song.
Sylvia: Greed Island continues to have pretty just banger tracks.
Jack: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Introduced to the soundtrack.
Jack: While we're on music quickly, we get a lot of Bisky’s theme played here.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Bisky’s theme is played on— we previously talked in the past episode about there's kind of, like, the fiddle melody.
[clip of Biscuit’s theme begins]
Jack: But it’s actually two fiddles played in stereo, one pretty hard in the left channel and one pretty hard in the right channel.
[music ends]
Sylvia: Hmm.
Dre: Hmm.
Jack: So it’s like something is dueting, which I really like. I think Hirano also is so good at writing drums [Keith: Mm-hmm.] and has kind of demonstrated how good he is at writing drums. 
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: I feel like the sort of, like, rippling bongo licks that appear all over this show are really lovely Hirano drum parts, but Bisky’s theme begins with this really great, extremely loose snare drum, so you can really hear, like, the little cords, the little springs that make a snare drum have the sound that it does, like, rattling away underneath the snare.
Keith: Can I get that? Can I get that?
Jack: You might be able to.
[snare part of Biscuit’s theme plays briefly]
Sylvia: Ooh!
Dre: God, yeah.
Jack: Isn't it great?
Keith: Really good.
Dre: Oh, the drums are so good in this show.
Keith: Yeah. It’s not a track that you would think would have drums that sound like that.
Jack: No.
Keith: But it really works.
Jack: I have found the humble snare drum to be so joyful to play.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And almost always a benefit to anything I put it against, even when I'm like, “I don't think this thing needs a snare.”
Keith: I'm very excited for…
Jack: I love it.
Keith: I'm learning the drums, finally, after 20 years of wanting to learn the drums.
Jack: Yes!
Sylvia: Ooh.
Dre: Ohh.
Keith: Yeah, I've been—
Dre: Are you learning on, like, a real kit, or are you doing an e-kit, or…?
Keith: Well, I got a multipad. I got a Korg multipad.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: So it’s 12, like, little pads that you can hit, and I— so, I bought that a couple months ago, and then this month, I got the final essential pieces, which are a virtual, like, hi-hat pedal and a bass pedal.
Jack: It’s so cool.
Keith: So that I can assign those to play those and keep the drums on the actual pad. Very exciting.
Jack: Please let us know how it goes. The “Keith is learning the drums” segment that shows up every so often.
Keith: I'll do it.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: But yeah, I think Biscuit’s theme is really good. It’s also immediately very, very catchy, and, you know, writing a catchy theme isn't the be-all and end-all of music, [Keith: No.] and I think that some of the most striking tracks in this show have been ones that weren't immediately catchy to me, but I found myself—
Keith: It’s kind of astonishing how it never was released on the soundtrack and it went unnamed, because of— I feel like they use it so much that it almost feels like the Greed Island theme, which it’s not, of course. The Greed Island theme is this one.
[clip of “G.I. Theme” plays briefly]
Keith: That one.
Jack: I love this stupid theme. [laughs quietly] It’s so…
Keith: It’s a great theme, but Bisky’s theme feels so much a part of Greed Island, to me.
Jack: Yeah. I wonder why they didn't release it.
Keith: Yeah. Sorry, Jack—
Jack: Was it cut for time?
Keith: Um, I don't know. They released four separate soundtracks. There's four CDs full of soundtrack songs, so it’s not like they…
Jack: God.
Keith: It’s not like they didn't release a bunch of songs.
Jack: And there's great music right through to the end of this thing?
Keith: Oh, yeah. Oh my god. Some of the best stuff we're 50 episodes away from.
Dre: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Jack: I'm so excited.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I think the soundtrack has just been so much fun. But let’s see. Where are we? Biscuit thinks that Killua’s analysis and physical strength is stronger. Yep. She’s right.
Keith: Yep, she’s right.
Jack: But Gon makes up for it with concentration and recovery speed. She says they make a perfect team. I would describe Gon’s concentration as obstinacy.
Keith: Yeah. [Dre laughs]
Jack: I think that when Gon tries to concentrate, there's that, like, drum sound, and steam comes out of his ears.
Keith: Right.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: But he is very, very obstinate.
Keith: Concentration is not exactly the right word. I agree. He’s persistent, I guess, more than anything.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But he is definitely— he does have a good recovery speed.
Keith: And he’s a very, very fast learner.
Jack: And then we just really start digging into, like, hand-to-hand Nen combat. There's a lot of mechanics here, but in brief, Biscuit sort of identifies Gon’s punch as a thing called Ko, which is a combination of all the Nen techniques, and then teaches them—
Keith: This is what Wing sort of gave them a hint on [Jack: Yes.] when they went to go try out for Greed Island, is like, combine everything you know.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And she teaches them how they can sort of, like, flood Ko into their whole body, using a technique called Ken, which is a really strong whole body shield that they can use to sort of, like, block a Ko punch.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: They can like…mm. They can shift, you know, like in FTL, where you, you know, shift out of your engines and put it in the shields or shift out of your guns to put it into your engines. You can essentially, like, meter Ken through your body and into your limbs to, like, block attacks.
Keith: Right. And that’s called Ryu.
Jack: There's an extremely cool moment where Biscuit throws a really slow punch at Gon.
Keith: It’s so good. It’s so funny.
Jack: Teaching him how to block it. And the punch connects, and Gon just goes flying backwards. It’s like Wing and the wall. And then, you know, she starts teaching Gon and Killua to fight this way and has them fight really slowly as well. This reminded me a lot of that great bit that you showed us in Dragon Ball, Keith, where Roshi and Krillin are fighting, [Keith laughs] but they fight so fast that they have to, like, walk everybody back through the…
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, they do, like, a— they do, like, a pantomime of the fight they just had to show everybody what happened in it.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: And there's something about how stagey and fun that is from, like, an animation perspective, of like, staging a really— a pantomime fight, and you can tell that the animators are having fun staging, like, a slow fight, as Gon and Killua do this thing.
Keith: So, can I really quickly say why I think that these three new things are so interesting?
Jack: Yeah, of course.
Dre: Please.
Keith: So, I think it’s funny, because we just came off a series of episodes where we complimented it for being able to more naturally lay in a bunch of new knowledge into the narrative.
Jack: Yeah, and we ain't there.
Keith: And that’s not what they do here. We are in school. We are saying, “This is Ko. This is what Ko is. This is Ken.” But the thing that I love about it is how it changes what it means to know Ten, Zetsu, Ren, and Hatsu, because in order to make Ko happen, you have to apply Zetsu to a specific part of your body in order to, like, keep Nen from leaking in there to get your really strong punch. And then you learn that Ten and Ren are different, but then in Ken, you learn to basically— Ken is like using Ten on your Ren. Instead of just, like, throwing your Ren out, you then have to keep it out and hold it, like flexing a new muscle. And the the way that— the thing that makes that so interesting is then, once they describe what Ryu is, which is to use Gyo on Ken to shift the balance… [Sylvia laughs] I know it sounds insane. To shift the balance—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: This is like, okay, in order to not die when you get punched in Ko. That’s what Ken is. And so, if you're using Ko on your fist to punch and then you get punched, you'll die, so you need to use Ken to, like, add a buffer, but then your punches are weak again, so you have to use Ryu to… [Dre laughs] You have to use Ryu to move most of the power into your fist, while keeping enough to keep you from dying if you get punched. And the thing that is so spectacular about this to me is that it’s essentially the exact same thing as the problem that Gon learned Ko to solve, which was having Nen that was leaking out of his punches into the rest of his body.
Jack: Oh, sure.
Keith: And so you need to apply Zetsu to your Ten/Ren/Hatsu/Gyo combination in order to get rid of that leaking Nen. And then Ryu is like, no, no, we actually sometimes need that leaking Nen, and instead of going 90/10, you really need to be going, like, 70/30. So, like, it’s reapplying this thing that we learned about as a weakness as actually, like, the most important one of all of these new techniques.
Jack: When I learned Nen, I said, “This is what the world must sound like to dogs.” [Keith and Sylvia laugh]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And I just want to say that I do feel the same way still.
Dre: I don't— I think the world might be easier to keep up with for dogs than for me to keep up with all of the Nen techniques. [Keith laughs]
Jack: I see what you're saying.
Keith: Did I explain that well? Did I explain why that’s cool?
Jack: Uh, sort of.
Dre: Yeah. No, totally.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: Yeah. Here’s a—
Dre: No, it’s just that I turn into Gon when we talk about technical Nen stuff for too long.
Keith: Okay. Sure.
Sylvia: Yeah. It’s just, like…
Dre: That’s not your fault.
Sylvia: I feel like a lot of this is just, like, to lay out the visual language of, like, the way fights are going to work.
Keith: Sure.
Dre: Sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Because I don't know how many of these terms get used later on.
Keith: Ooh, they do use them occasionally.
Sylvia: A little? Okay. 
Keith: I had this—
Sylvia: They feel much rarer than stuff like Ten and Gyo and En will be.
Keith: I had this same thought, Sylvi, the last time I was rewatching.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And then as we moved into later things, I was like, oh, they're throwing out Ryu, like, all of the time.
Sylvia: Okay, nevermind then.
Keith: Or Ken especially. So definitely at least more than I thought they were going to.
Sylvia: Wakeup Dragon Punch all over the place.
Keith: Let me just add a metaphor to this. Do you remember when Kortopi is like, “Yeah, my copies count as my En so that I know where…”
Jack: Yep.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: “So, like, I can put a barrier up of the fake city and then know if anybody shows up,” and then they reuse that, like, 10 minutes later—
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: To be like, “And that means that I can also know where the scarlet eyes are.”
Jack: Track the eyes.
Keith: And that is, like, the same sort of maneuver here, where we learned six episodes ago about this leaking Nen problem that Gyo has and then, like, recontextualize it as its own technique.
[1:10:10]
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: That’s what I think is cool.
Jack: Yeah. No, I think you're right, and I think that this is a nice exploration of what it is like to learn things, as well.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And, you know, so often when you are learning a thing, you suddenly find that what you thought was the flat fundamental is actually a core part of the process of the thing that you're working on next.
Dre: Mm. Ohh.
Jack: That’s why they call them fundamentals.
Dre: It’s just like in middle school, when I failed one math class and that meant that I failed math for the rest of my life. 
Jack: [laughs] Oh god.
Keith: Oh no. [laughs] 
Dre: I didn't actually fail, but that was—
Jack: Yes, that is what it’s like.
Keith: Yeah. It’s a struggle.
Dre: That is where math turned for me. [laughs] 
Keith: So—
Jack: Wow.
Sylvia: Oh, I did fail, and that is also where math turned for me. [Dre laughs] 
Keith: So, they introduced this slow-mo fighting thing, and this does two things. First of all, it’s Bisky being like, you now need to— we're doing a Ken endurance training. You need to maintain your Ken, which is Ten and Ren together, for 30 minutes minimum, because if you're going to be in a Nen fight, you need to be able to have this going for a half hour, or you're going to die. Very practical. Totally makes sense to me. I'm with you, Bisky. They do this, and then they're like, “Okay, now it’s time for you to do this during a real fight,” and so Gon and Killua have to do the slow-mo fight that Bisky demonstrated.
Dre: Oh, it’s so good. It’s so good! [laughs quietly] 
Keith: And so they're doing— it’s like, they're throwing— when I say slow-mo, they're fighting— they're throwing, like, one punch every 15 seconds. [laughs quietly] It’s so funny, and you get to hear inside Gon’s head, and he’s like, “Okay, punch is coming in. I've gotta block with my left hand. I've gotta put 30% into the rest of my body but then 70% into my arm. Okay. Let’s go,” and then it hits. I think it’s hilarious. I think it’s very funny.
Jack: It’s also especially funny where if you have ever been in a situation as a musician or an actor or a performer and the director has said to you, “Yeah, but could you do it 30% more?” you know how bananas a piece of advice that is, [Keith laughs] and you’re like, “Really?”
Keith: I thought you were going the other way, which is, like, the part of learning something, like, especially— you know, learning the guitar, a huge part of learning the guitar is taking a piece of music and playing it at 10% speed.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Oh, all the time. [laughs quietly] 
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: And so you're just like, okay, I'm playing it at 10%. Now I'm playing it at 15%, and then later on, I can play it at 50%. And then it’s two hours later, and I'm playing it at, like, 85%, and—
Jack: The only way to learn how to play quickly is to play extremely slowly.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: And I'm so bad at this, because there actually is another way, and it’s to play it quickly, and if you make one mistake, start over full speed. Never slow down. [Jack laughs] I can't do it slow. I get so, like, bored. [laughs] I have to only go fast.
Dre: You gotta go fast, yeah.
Keith: I think it’s a worse way to learn, for sure.
Jack: You're like the guy trying to learn hurdles but he hasn't figured out what jumping is, so he just runs at the hurdles [Dre and Sylvia laugh] until he sort of accidentally falls over one of them, and then he’s like, “Oh, there might be something into that.”
Keith: Yeah. And then I go back to the beginning, and yeah. [Jack laughs quietly]
Jack: And then Biscuit is like, “Okay, fine. Now I need you, in the same way that you sort of put the Nen in the, uh…in the shovel, I need you to start putting Nen into rocks and breaking rocks with other rocks. Break 1000 rocks with one rock.”
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And she specifically calls this Enhancer training.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And here’s my notes, as I had a breakthrough. I said, “How is this rock breaking thing Enhancer training?”
Keith: Oh, it’s so— this is great.
Jack: “Isn't it just use of the Ko punch extended? They're just doing the Ko punch extended out through the rock like they did with the shovel?”
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And then I wrote down, “Oh shit, that’s Enhancing.”
Keith: Yes. [laughs] 
Jack: This is— we've just been taught what Nen— you know.
Keith: Remember what Wing said?
Jack: What did Wing say?
Keith: Wing said Enhancers don't need a special move. Their special move is being strong at Nen fundamentals.
Jack: God, it’s so cool, because, you know, we've been shown the Nen wheel from really early on, and we've been told, like, there are types of people called Emitters and they use Nen like this, or there are Enhancers and they use Nen like this, but we never really got a lot of focus in on, like, what that actually meant in terms of the application of the Nen. It was more talking about, like, how it outputs. And so, watching Biscuit work them through, very slowly, the discovery of how Nen enhancers work was really, really cool, and it sort of sold what the show and what Biscuit and Nen are trying to say, right? Which is that thing teachers always say, and they're right, and it’s so irritating, which is that the meat of the thing is in the fundamentals, you know?
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: If you want to learn how to do this thing, you have to learn it at its smallest possible unit, and then I'm going to show you how that small unit, you know, spins out into the actual thing.
Keith: It’s such a frustrating thing that is totally true about the world. [Jack laughs] It’s so annoying. It’s so annoying to be told, especially, you know, if you…I think a lot of people go through adolescence and are, like, don't consider themselves a smart person. I went through adolescence considering myself a smart person, and I was like, “I'm smart.” People are telling me, “Trust me, I know what I'm talking about. When you're older, you'll look back and go, ‘Wow, this person was an adult, and they knew what they were talking about,’ even if you think it’s stupid now,” and I went, “There’s no way. There’s no way.” [Keith and Jack laugh] And I will— and I think, to the credit of people who have those thoughts when they're teenagers: you will find that a lot of the times, you were still right.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: And that is the frustrating point, that you will never know in the moment who is giving you good advice and who is a piece of shit.
Jack: Because sometimes… [laughs quietly] [sarcastic] Hey, do you think that this is maybe a show about learning things?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Do you think that that might be a core thing that this show is about?
Dre: Hmm.
Keith: [laughs quietly] Yes.
Sylvia: [sarcastic] What the fuck? What? Hold on.
Keith: You'll never know, in the moment, who’s Wing and who’s Bisky. You will never know.
Sylvia: [sarcastic] What would a guy like Togashi have to say about the extreme pursuits of your craft and the effects they'd have on you?
Keith: [laughs quietly] Oh my god.
Sylvia: I just don't understand.
Dre: [sarcastic] I don't get it.
Keith: [sarcastic] Probably looking too much into it. 
Sylvia: Nah. Don't think of it.
Keith: The curtain’s just blue.
Sylvia: Yeah. Don't worry. Don't worry your pretty little head about it. [Dre snorts]
Jack: [chuckles] It is interesting, actually, to, like, dial the— no, I do not want to update my browser right now. [Sylvia laughs] I'm recording a podcast. Stop it.
Dre: You sure? Are you sure? You might need it.
Keith: One day, you'll look back, and you'll know it was the right thing to do to update your browser. You should have updated. [Jack and Dre laugh]
Jack: No, this one’s one of the stupid ones. [Keith laughs] This is one of the ones where I'm like, “I don't think that’s true.” Biscuit is tying together two pretty core themes here, right? Which is that, like, Gon and Killua’s friendship and love for one another is liberatory and restorative and generative of good things, and there is a real power in these kids learning Nen. Biscuit kind of ties them together, and she’s like, “They make a perfect team.”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Which is very different than sort of the interpretation that we tend to do when we read Gon and Killua’s relationship, right? Which is that, like, these two people are freeing each other from the worst aspects of themselves, or, in some cases, giving into the worst aspects of each other.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Biscuit is like, “Ah, my gems.”
Keith: My gems. They look so great on the same ring.
Jack: [laughs quietly] Yeah, exactly. [Dre laughs quietly] 
Keith: She alludes to some mysterious final phase that’s two weeks away, as they work up to full speed here.
Jack: But then she gives a full-on powerpoint about the supposed origins of rock paper scissors.
Keith: Oh. Oh, right before that, though.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Keith: I forgot. This whole time, they've been playing the Gyo game where she holds up a finger.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And they've been slowly transitioning from one person doesn't get it, one person gets it, and that person is punished and has to do a bunch of pushups. And then now they're at the point where they get it every time and they always tie. They're always getting it right and tying. It’s very funny.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: It’s really fun, the little Gyo game where she—
Sylvia: And eventually they don't like that, so they start playing rock paper scissors, and the loser has to do pushups.
Keith: Yeah. Gon wins.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. Because he’s good at rock paper scissors.
Keith: Okay. Jack, tell me about Evil Fist.
Sylvia: Yeah, please tell me about Evil Fist. I have a lot to say.
Jack: Well, so, Biscuit’s powerpoint is very thin. She is no Powerpoint Master Kurapika. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: No, absolutely not.
Jack: And her powerpoint essentially says this: did you know rock paper scissors is actually an ancient sort of expression of martial arts, because long ago, martial arts was seen as profane and was suppressed, and so the martial artists invented a game that they could play to sort of, like, hide the fact that they were actually doing fighting? Which is similar to the development of capoeira, the Brazilian dance martial arts technique [Keith: Mm.] among enslaved people, which was like—
Keith: It’s also the same story of the Jesus fish.
Jack: Is that— I don't know what you're talking about. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Uh, the fish just became, like, a Jesus symbol when that was…
Jack: Oh, right, right.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: As the hidden symbol of worship, right?
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: But I don't think this is true about rock paper scissors.
Keith: I genuinely don't know. I've never looked it up. It just doesn't feel like a true story, because it’s not a very good story.
Jack: Yeah. Then Killua gets punched into the sky again. Did we write down why he gets punched this time? This is—
Keith: Called her a hag. Called her old.
Jack: Okay. [laughs] Okay. Sure.
Keith: There's a theme with that.
Jack: I will say: I find this running joke charming. [laughter] 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Every time it happens, I'm like, “He got punched into the sky again.” It’s really funny.
Sylvia: It happens in the Greed Island tutorial too, and it’s really funny.
Jack: Does it?
Sylvia: Yeah. Maybe—
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Jack: Oh, oh.
Sylvia: Okay.
Jack: I have not been watching these Greed Island tutorials, I'm afraid.
Sylvia: You should, Jack.
Dre: Oh, I haven't either.
Sylvia: They're really cute. They're really good.
Dre: Are they at the end of the episodes?
Sylvia: Yeah. They replaced the Hunterpedia.
Keith: They're where the Hunterpedia was, yeah.
Dre: Okay. Okay.
Keith: It’s the same art style. It’s essentially Hunterpedia— it’s Greed Islandpedia.
Jack: I think that maybe…
Sylvia: Yeah, and it’s the same comedy style too.
Jack: Maybe where I am streaming these has cut them? That would be crazy. There's some really weird editing happening.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: For example, after the title sequence, there's always a single loose frame from later in the episode that hangs out for two seconds before we cut to titles.
Sylvia: Oh.
Keith: That is weird.
Jack: It’s not good.
Dre: No, I think that’s…
Sylvia: Does it play music while that happens, though?
Jack: No.
Dre: Oh.
Sylvia: Okay. Because they do that where it plays the [imitates music]
Dre: Yeah. I get that.
Sylvia: But it’s usually— I don't know if it’s a panel from the— a panel. A screen from the next episode or the one that just played?
Jack: For me, it’s the episode I'm about to go into.
Sylvia: Weird.
Jack: I get a shot from the episode.
Dre: Weird.
Jack: Yeah. You know. I'll figure it out. But Gon, having learned about the sort of fist attack, the rock, looks at his hands, and with the tone of a man who has just seen God, says, “Evil Fist.” [Dre laughs]
Keith: Yes, Gon has become inspired by rock paper scissors.
Jack: Is Gon’s Freecss’s— one of Gon— Gon is about to get very interested in rock paper scissors, it’s worth saying.
Dre: Uh huh.
Jack: Is one of Gon Freecss’s powers going to be called Evil Fist? Is that really what we're doing here?
Keith: I think that— I'm happy to say this, because they do say it in the episode. It is not called Evil— he doesn't call it Evil Fist. He just calls it Rock Paper Scissors.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Okay. Good.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s just Janken. Yeah.
Dre: Or Jan-ken-pon?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Am I pronouncing that right? Okay.
Sylvia: I think so. There’s… [sighs] I guess I should wait til we talk a little bit about the Bomber before I talk about this.
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Meanwhile… [laughs quietly] The episode is about to take a turn. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Oh, this is the Bomber. This is the Bomber part.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: No, no. I was like, I should wait until we literally do the next scene.
Keith: Got it.
Dre: I have one next important note to make.
Jack: Mm.
Dre: This was pointed out to me by my wonderful wife. When Killua was fighting Binolt, she said, “Oh, Killua’s kind of fighting like Orange Cassidy.” [Sylvia laughs] Because he’s just running around with his hands in his little pockets.
Sylvia: That was for me.
Keith: Who’s Orange Cassidy?
Sylvia: He’s a wrestler.
Keith: Okay.
Dre: He’s a wrestler whose character is that he’s a slacker, so much so that, like, sometimes when he wrestles, he doesn't pull his hands out of his pockets.
Keith: That’s really funny.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Because that takes too much energy.
Sylvia: You'd like him, I think.
Dre: Oh, Orange Cassidy’s great.
Sylvia: I think, of the wrestlers, that’s a Keith wrestler.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Jack: Killua hands in pockets is one of my three favorite Killua pose silhouettes that he’s drawn in sometimes.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: And they don't overuse these. It’s Killua hands in pockets, is funny every time. Then there's Killua running with his hands in his pockets, which is great, 'cause he sort of bends back at his waist, so he’s, like, leaning back with his hands in his pockets. And then the third is the, like, classic anime hands up behind his head, but Killua will often, like, run like that or, like, get into scraps with that.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: In the original title sequence, he roundhouse kicks a guy with his hands in his pockets, which was great. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: That’s fun.
Jack: Meanwhile, in Nickes’s base. Remember, this is the team who has figured out a way to clear the game. [laughs quietly] This plan is not going to work for them.
Sylvia: This thing is really funny to me.
Jack: This is such a Togashi swerve, because he sets up, like, Nickes’s team’s plan with such detail. It is so clever, and you're like, “Oh, right, this is going to be an interesting plot to see worked through,” you know what I mean? [Keith laughs] Like, to see them execute this. And then stuff starts happening. So, they need— they have about 10 more cards to get. They're a little worried about Tsezguerra’s group. Tsezguerra, if you don't remember, was Battera’s sort of man in the game.
Keith: Yes, he’s the Gold Star Hunter.
Sylvia: The Head Hunter. Yeah.
Jack: Yes. He is, like, a very professional. We get shots of him. Him and his team are sort of wearing camo. You know, Battera has also— 
Sylvia: Easy—
Jack: Oh, go on.
Sylvia: Oh, go ahead. I was going to say an easy way for the audience to remember him is he’s the guy who did the interviews that led to Gon and Killua being here.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Right. 
Jack: Mm-hmm. And you get the impression that Battera is smart enough to have his own man in the game as well, to be like, you know, sometimes you've gotta do it yourself.
Keith: Yeah, he’s hired him on— they don't say this specifically, but it just sort of feels like he’s on retainer, he’s getting paid a salary to play the game, and it’s because, like, Battera’s put his money on this guy being the one to beat it, beat the game.
Jack: Right. The professor-looking figure, whose name is, uh, begins with a G.
Dre: Genthru?
Jack: Genthru.
Keith: Genthru.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Genthru. We might not have talked about him in the previous episodes, and you three did a really good job at not drawing attention to him.
Keith: Yes.
Sylvia: He kind of does nothing in them. He’s just a guy.
Keith: He has a couple things. He talks about how worried he is about the Bomber, for instance.
Jack: Yes, he does.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It’s so good.
Keith: And then he has— you know, I think he briefly talks about, like, not wanting to, like, kill anyone in order to get the cards.
[1:25:00]
Jack: It’s so funny. I call him the professor, because he looks a bit like a Pokémon professor. He has a sort of—
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: He looks like Mac Tonight. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: Yeah. No, he does. He does. [Sylvia continues laughing]
Jack: I don't know who that is.
Sylvia: Hold on.
Jack: Oh, he sort of does. Yeah, yeah, yeah. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. [Sylvia sighs] We all know who Mac Tonight is.
Sylvia: Mac Tonight— oh, I know who Mac Tonight— 
Keith: Almost everyone listening will know who Mac Tonight is.
Sylvia: I could do two hours on Mac Tonight and a weird fucking, like, Mac Tonight fan project I found once where he’s a postapocalyptic bounty hunter. 
Keith: Oh my god.
Jack: Who was the one who did the really famous broadcast signal intrusion? Similarly creepy mask character.
Sylvia: Max Headroom?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Max Headroom. Yeah.
Keith: Max Headroom, yeah.
Jack: I fucking love that weird thing. Okay. He has thin little glasses. He wears a white coat with these sort of, like, two distinctive fastenings on the front. He’s very tall. He’s very lanky. Otherwise, he’s broadly unremarkable. You get the impression that he’s one of the sort of, like, leadership group of the clear team.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And he stands up, and he says, “You know, we've been in the game for a long time, and I guess I've got to tell you that I'm the Bomber,” and then all hell breaks loose in these episodes.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Togashi just, like, suddenly turns the car around and reveals that we're going to Disneyland. He has planted bombs on the entire group and horrifyingly wounds one of them, the sort of spiky-haired sort of young guy, who tries to intervene.
Keith: Jispa.
Sylvia: Jispa.
Jack: Jispa. He burns his face with a sort of ball of plasma in his hand that he calls Handful of Gunpowder/Little Flower. At this point, he reveals himself to be a full-on JoJo villain.
Keith: So, it’s interesting. The interesting thing about calling him a JoJo villain is the— so, there's the obvious connection to, uh—
Sylvia: Kira.
Jack: Yoshikage Kira.
Keith: Kira, from the JoJo episodes we watched, who can also blow people up.
Jack: Oh, we should briefly say that if you are interested in hearing us talk for maybe eight hours?
Keith: Almost eight hours, yeah.
Jack: About JoJo's Bizarre Adventure and having a really incredible time, you can support us at friendsatthetable.cash to get access to the bonus episodes.
Keith: By the time this is out, either both episodes will be released of that or it’ll be up next week, so…
Jack: Right, right, right.
Keith: So you've either got to wait a week, or it’s already been out.
Jack: So you're getting in at the ground floor.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Which makes the total count of released bonus episodes at four, which I think is well worth the price of friendsatthetable.cash.
Jack: Yeah. Yoshikage Kira is a fairly major villain in season three? Four?
Keith: Yeah, he’s the main antagonist in the season, yeah.
Jack: Three?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Season three or four.
Sylvia: I just say part four.
Jack: Part four.
Keith: Season three, part four, yeah.
Jack: Oh, sure. Okay. And he, among other things, has an extremely violent and unsettling power where he can cause things to explode by touching them.
Keith: The other thing that’s interesting about Kira and Genthru is that…so, they can both do the exploding thing, but Kira ends up, like, amassing a bizarrely high collection of different powers that his Stand can use by the end, and Genthru is kind of like that. Genthru has, like, kind of three separate powers that he uses, which he illustrates as Little Flower, which we see used to burn Jispa’s face, and then his, like, main bomb attack, which I don't remember what it’s called, where he can put a secret bomb on you using a code, which is when he touches you and says, “the Bomber.”
Jack: Which is very funny.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: When this was— he says, “I set the bomb by touching the place I want to set the bomb and saying a keyword: Bomber.” [Keith laughs] And at first, I thought it was really funny that he had this, like, pregnant pause before revealing that his keyword was his name, but then it’s revealed why he does that, because we get a really great montage of him setting the bombs.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: He sets a bomb on Puhat. He sets a bomb on the man in the striped doublet, the blue doublet with the white piping on it.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Did we learn that guy’s name in the last episode?
Keith: Um…
Sylvia: Oh…
Keith: The blue…
Jack: He’s about to become more important.
Keith: Oh, yeah. Abengane.
Sylvia: I think we said it. Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Abengane. Okay, cool. I'd been calling him Doublet in my notes. [Keith chuckles]
Dre: Sure.
Jack: Yeah. We get this great little montage. And then he has another power, where to disarm the bombs, you have to touch him and say, “I caught the Bomber.”
Keith: I think it’s very cute.
Jack: We are back in game within a game again.
Dre: Uh huh.
Jack: This is tag. This is like a playground game, of like, I can put the charm on you by touching you and saying the thing, and you can only rid yourself of the charm by touching me and saying another thing.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: This is kind of just the way Hunters think about the world. It’s great. The bombs now all appear visible on the players, and they start counting down. And a detail that I only really put together literally as we're talking about it now: all the people have bombs in different places, because that’s where Genthru touched them to set the bomb.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yep.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It’s great. Nickes’s bomb is on his back, so it’s not clear whether he has been targeted.
Keith: Puhat’s bomb is on his stomach.
Jack: Abengane’s bomb is on his shoulder.
Keith: They show— [laughs quietly] all of the flashbacks are so sad. He’s sort of, like, gently ribbing Puhat in the stomach, being like, “Hey, watch out for that Bomber, huh?” [Keith and Sylvia laugh]
Jack: It’s so good.
Keith: It’s so fucked up.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: And this is why— this is when he explains— oh, sorry, Jack. Were you done with that bit?
Jack: Oh, and then he says— I wrote down here, “Why is this happening now?” and I think the main reason why this is happening now is that the story moves at Togashi’s pace. He decides [Keith: Yeah.] when events happen, not us.
Keith: Also, they have pretty much all the cards.
Sylvia: I think the key turning point is that they have most of the spell cards, right?
Keith: Oh. Sorry, there is one other thing that I know, and I don't know if I know it because it’s something that Abengane says later or if it’s—it’s not super important, so I don't mind saying it now—or if it’s something that I know because they just have more content in the manga for this. But Abengane’s like, “Yeah, it happened now, because everyone was together.” They were having, like, a big meeting, so…
Sylvia: Right, okay.
Dre: Ohhh, okay.
Sylvia: I don't know if that’s said in the show.
Jack: Yeah, he does…I think he does say that.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: Oh, okay.
Jack: He also has to tell them about the bombs to arm them, which is—
Keith: Right. This is his third ability: Countdown.
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Dre: Oh, okay.
Keith: Which is triggered when you explain the other two powers, and that really seals the Kira thing, I think.
Sylvia: That does, and I think— so, the thing I really want to get into, on top of this, is the way you can disable it, which is you have to put your hand on him and say, “I've caught the Bomber.” Did we mention that?
Keith: Yes, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: But in order to do that, you've got to contend with the fact that his hands are bombs.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: It’s great.
Sylvia: But he’s— it’s a game. It’s a game of tag, right?
Keith: It’s a game of tag, yeah.
Sylvia: And so that’s— we've got Greed Island now, which presents itself as a game and is actually this kind of, like—
Keith: Other worse game.
Sylvia: Very dangerous, sinister Nen training program, in a—
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: At least in the way that, like, Bisky talks about it, you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: We got the stuff with the Evil Fist and janken, the janken thing.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Of literally— like, she gives us a good explanation of how each part of the game represents this way of maiming your opponent. And then we get this, which is another thing of Togashi being like, “What if games were evil and fucked up?” What if tag blew you up?
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Or if you weren't good enough at tag, you exploded?
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: And I think I really like how he is…because this is a show about two kids, right? Like, using a lot of stuff that is related to childishness and childhood and then turning it into pretty upsetting things or, like, threatening things.
Keith: Yeah. But meanwhile, Gon and Killua are just, like, excited to play.
Sylvia: They don't even know. Yeah. [Keith laughs]
Dre: They're just vibing.
Jack: Well, there's a couple of other things here as well, right? Which is first, you know, I keep coming back to the fact that this is a show for kids, and, you know, we talked in the Dragon Ball thing about how, when you were a kid, Keith, you sort of pretty much had dedicated time for thinking about Dragon Ball.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And going out into the woods and thinking about Dragon Ball.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Throwing a thing, making the Kamehameha.
Keith: Yeah, throwing rocks at trees like it’s a Ki blast, yeah.
Jack: You know. Yeah, exactly. And so I think that, you know, as we just keep going further and further into these weird convoluted expressions of games in the show, it is, on some level, speaking to the kids who are playing Hunter × Hunter.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: You know, it’s like, “I want to be Killua,” or whatever.
Keith: It’s also sort of like abstract, like, sort of a heightening of the actual danger of going outside and playing as a kid. Like, I went into the woods. There were snakes out there. There was, you know, there’s coyotes. There's occasionally wolves where I grew up. You know, poisonous snakes, again, occasionally. And I'm just, like, out in the woods, doing my thing, throwing stuff. [Jack laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Knocking rotten trees over, finding axes in the barn and just, like, hitting stuff with axes. [Sylvia laughs] Occasionally, um…I wouldn't want to say stealing, but using the, like, ride-on lawnmowers that I'm not supposed to use.
Jack: And not for lawnmowing purposes.
Keith: Not for— yeah. Riding those Fisher Price cars down driveway hills.
Jack: Oh, we—
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, we've talked about that.
Keith: We've talked about that.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: We talked at length about the Fisher Price. The Fisher Price.
Keith: I was doing some genuinely dangerous stuff as, like, a 12-year-old outside unsupervised in the woods. And it’s not the same kind of danger, but there is, like, a connect— there is, like, this way that this show is, like, amplifying, exaggerating, taking that sort of, like, innocent childhood danger and making it, like, extreme. But like, but not really changing the attitudes of the children.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. And it is, you know, it’s worth going back to the root of it, right? Which is, like, the way that the show allows its characters to enter into this world where everything is a game is they have to play a death game to start, you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: You are living your own comfortable life. Then, if you win a death game, the truth of the world is revealed to you, which is it is a series of nesting games.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It’s great.
Keith: [laughs quietly] Like, finishing the Hunter Exam and being like, “Phew, at least we're done with the death game.” [Jack and Keith laugh] At least the death game part of our story is over.
Jack: Oh, death games all the way down.
Sylvia: Getting up at 2 a.m. for more death game. [Jack laughs]
Keith: So, this whole thing— I don't know if we said it, you know, plainly, but Genthru is blackmailing everyone for their cards, and he’s going to blow you up if you don't give over all the specified slot cards. This is a ploy to turn the number of winners down from a couple dozen to, we learn in a second, is three.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Because Puhat shows up. Genthru leaves, uses the Leave card to go to Battera’s mansion. Puhat is supposed to show up with all the cards; instead shows up to kind of do a bargain, say, “Hey, they don't want to give you the cards, because they want to use the big important card they have to save Jispa, who’s still alive. I can sort of be your man on the inside,” and Genthru essentially immediately blows his throat up.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah, he just kills Puhat immediately.
Keith: He says, “When you negotiate with someone—” and this is a very interesting way of seeing the world. I don't know what Art of the Deal fucking book he wrote or he read.
Sylvia: It’s such a fucking good line.
Keith: But he says, “When you negotiate with someone, you have to demonstrate just how calm and insane you are.”
Jack: It’s such a good Togashi line. [Keith laughs] It is sort of meaningless, but it’s a really fun thing to have a character say.
Keith: And he kind of calls back to it later, too. So, Sub and Bara are there. Those are the other two bombers.
Sylvia: That’s a— those are crazy names, by the way.
Keith: Those are crazy names.
Jack: I know. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: But Sub calls— oh, sorry, it was Bara. Bara calls himself the— they're the Bomber wingmen. We're just the other two Bombers. He needs us to, like, trigger the main bomb. And so they all have to be together.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: And…
Jack: They have cool looks. They have marks on their foreheads like Chrollo does. Not the same mark.
Sylvia: [laughs quietly] They also have them on their t-shirts.
Keith: Yeah. [Dre laughs]
Jack: But they also have matching marks on their t-shirts. It’s so cool. I mean, I wonder whether or not this speaks to some kind of a subculture that Chrollo was part of at some point in his life. When we saw him in that flashback as a kid, did he have the tattoo or the mark on his forehead?
Keith: Sorry, who?
Jack: Chrollo.
Dre: Chrollo.
Keith: Oh. Um…no, I think—
Sylvia: I don't think so.
Keith: No, I think he didn't.
Sylvia: I think he had it in the flashback where he’s fighting Silva, though?
Jack: Silva, yeah.
Keith: Yes.
Jack: I do want to briefly say— oh, so, there's a little bit of mechanics refresher on Greed Island here. When you leave the game, which you can only do in two ways—you can use a Leave card or something else that we'll learn about later—you lose all your unnumbered cards, but your numbered cards are saved in your ring. This is what Genthru and his cronies are after. They're not really interested in the unnumbered cards. So, Puhat can come out of the game, and in fact, they take his ring before they kill him. Putting on a ring over your existing ring overwrites what you have with the other ring. I do just want to briefly say that: do you remember back when they used that computer and they went in the computer to learn about Greed Island?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Uh huh.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: So, a detail that I remembered during that [Sylvia laughs quietly] is that it costs a lot of money to get information about Greed Island, and the bartender in that claims that you can only leave Greed Island— god, what does he say? If you reach save points, which is wrong. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: That is just not how it works at all. I had thought he said if you find a special item, which I was like, yeah, that’s probably right. 
Dre: Yeah, the Leave card.
Jack: You know, you could use a special item to describe the Leave cards. But the bartender, with the information that they paid for, says you can only leave the game at certain save points, and I just, I love that they're wrong about that and it cost them a lot of money to get it.
Keith: I'll say this. There is— if you want to be a little bit generous, he’s half right, because to leave Greed Island without the Leave card, Killua does have to go to the port. And you can be like, okay, port is, maybe that’s, like, you could call that a save point or something.
Jack: Yeah, I suppose.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Puhat’s head gets delivered to the main team, [Keith: Yeah.] to Nickes’s team, in a bag. It’s great. It’s a nice little bit of Togashi gore. We've talked in the past about how—
Sylvia: In, like, a 7-Eleven bag too.
Jack: I know, it really is.
Sylvia: It’s, like, dumped there.
Jack: Togashi—
Keith: This guy hates heads on necks.
Jack: He sure does.
Sylvia: Yeah, you know.
Jack: Togashi really underplays the violence, or the onscreen violence, because it’s a very violent show, but it’s very rarely gory, except for when it is and he really goes for it. People getting their faces bitten off is a Togashi hallmark by this point, [Keith: Mm-hmm.] between one of the unfortunately Shadow Beasts and the Nen fish eating that guy alive.
Sylvia: Yeah. That was so cool.
Jack: And this is a head in a bag. There's another really cool onscreen Togashi going for it moment a bit later. But, on a boat, outside rocky cliffs, the Phantom Troupe arrive at the outside of Greed Island.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: They just found it.
Keith: More than half of the remaining Troupe are here.
Jack: Yeah. It is Phinks, Shalnark, Feitan, Shizuku, Franklin, and Kortopi. They found it really quickly.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, it’s real. Greed Island is in the real world. It’s just a place you can go to on a boat, but there is someone who has something to say about that.
Jack: But…
Keith: In the next episode, I guess.
Jack: Yeah. Before that, I would like to say briefly that a new guy has showed up on the thumbnail on the streaming platform that I'm using to watch Hunter × Hunter.
Keith: A new guy?
Jack: Yeah. This is notable to me, because the guy showing up on the thumbnail was my first introduction to Hisoka.
Sylvia: Oh.
Jack: I don't know if you remember way back when.
Dre: Oh.
Jack: Way before I had met Hisoka, I saw him in an image in a thumbnail, and I was like, “Who is that? Is that just going to be, like, a small-scale villain, or is that going to be the show’s main villain or whatever?” So, it’s notable to me that a new character has appeared on the thumbnail.
Keith: Okay.
Jack: He looks a bit like an alien? He has purple eyes. He has a pale, maybe pointed face, and he’s wearing what looks like a big purple headpiece or hat or something, like, curving above his head.
Sylvia: Do you have a screenshot of this?
Keith: Yeah, I genuinely don't know who you're talking about.
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: I am also confused.
Keith: And if you send the screenshot and I know who it is, I'm still— I'm not going to say shit. But.
Sylvia: No, me neither.
Dre: Yeah, same.
Sylvia: But I'm just…yeah.
Keith: But from the description, I'm not 100% sure who you mean, which I think is funny.
Jack: Oh my god. I've just noticed something else in this thumbnail. [laughs quietly] I don't really consider this a spoiler, because I would see it anyway, and it’s not like I'm getting useful information from it. [typing]
Sylvia: Oh, okay.
Dre: Hmm.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: [laughs quietly] Okay.
Keith: I understand. I understand now.
Jack: The other detail that I literally just noticed is that below this figure are maybe 100 shadowed people with glowing red eyes.
Keith: Sure.
Jack: Yep. You know.
Dre: Where did you say you're seeing this?
Jack: This is the thumbnail for the show on my streaming platform.
Dre: Oh.
Keith: Now, I know why this is happening. It’s because of something that we referenced in the last episode.
Sylvia: Oh, you're right!
Dre: Oh, I know why this is happening too, yeah.
Keith: Yes. [Sylvia laughs] It has to do with the way that TVDB understands anime seasons, which is incorrectly.
Jack: Oh shit. Now this…do I hear the tiny insectile drumbeats of the ants’ little feet approaching, I wonder?
Keith: Mm.
Jack: I think I might do.
Dre: I think I might do.
Jack: I thought that was worth mentioning, in the sense that this is ultimately— not ultimately. This is partly a project about the experience of watching a thing for the first time and, you know, encountering all the ephemera of the thing, of the show as you're watching it. And yeah, 'cause the last one was Hisoka, was the new character for me.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Episode 65 [1:43:20]
Jack: A man burning with Ren, wearing weird green shoes, emerges from the beach and calls the Phantom Troupe uninvited guests. This is one of the creators of the game. His name is Razor.
Sylvia: I don't like looking at him.
Dre: Aww.
Keith: I like Razor.
Jack: Why don't you like looking at him? I also find him a little unsettling, but…
Sylvia: I don't know. Something about him.
Keith: I think he seems like such a nice guy.
Sylvia: Mm, he makes me uncomfortable.
Dre: His face is kind of weird.
Sylvia: He has, like, a Tintin face. I don't know how else to say it. [Dre laughs]
Keith: When he smiles, he has this great big smile that is simultaneously— it feels very— it feels kind and also like he will kill you.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: It’s a very odd mix of genuine and threatening [laughs] that is, like, really impressive. It is such a well done image. I don't really understand, like, why I feel the way I do when he smiles like that.
Dre: Hey, I just pulled up a picture of Razor, since we're talking about how he looks. 
Keith: Uh huh.
Dre: Why is he wearing Yeezys? 
Jack: Yeah, I did say he’s wearing weird shoes.
Sylvia: Oh no.
Keith: He does have, like, watermelon shoes on.
Jack: Yeah. Very very strange looking guy.
Keith: He’s massive. He’s like…
Sylvia: What an interesting feller. [Jack chuckles]
Keith: He’s like what if your, mm…what if your gym teacher had been taking steroids for 15 years. 
Jack: [chuckles] That is kind of what he looks like.
Sylvia: Many such cases. [Dre chuckles]
Jack: He says that they can't have found the island accidentally, because currents prevent people from washing up on the island. You know, you essentially have to have found it if you're going to find…
Keith: Yeah. He gives them a brief opportunity to claim that they’re castaways.
Jack: Castaways. This, to me, just speaks more to the scale of the death game that Ging and Razor and some other people have created, you know, that they have ocean currents pushing people away from the shores. And then, I remember a couple of—
Keith: Do you think they're natural currents or Nen currents?
Jack: I think they're Nen currents. It was in the last recording when I sort of started to say, “What if this place actually is real? What if Shalnark is right?” and you said, “Well, how do you think the game works then?” and I offered two solutions. The first is, like…I offered three, actually. Solution one: magic is real and is different from Nen.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Solution two: it’s like showmanship. It’s all like special effects. It’s sort of like Truman Show bullshit. Option three: there is a lot of hyper-specific Nen being worked on the cards that lets them, like, lets other people use the Nen imbedded in the cards.
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: And we sort of get a clue that that [Dre: Mm.] might be what is happening, because Razor says that he is one of the creators. He handles Emitter spells, including all movement, and dealing with external threats.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Which kind of implies to me that part of the way Greed Island works is that you have Nen masters in specialist sort of, like, positions on the Nen wheel who are running the game like a GM. You know, if—
Keith: He called himself a GM.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Does he—? Yeah.
Dre: He calls himself a game master, yeah, at least in the dub.
Keith: Yeah, he says that he has special cards that only game masters can use. This card is called Eliminate.
Jack: Yeah, this card is so cool. He holds it up and just, like, you know, we talked about this last time. Every time someone uses a card, you get a little full screen shot of the card with the art on it. Raises card, has the word “Ruler Only” written where the art would be, because of course you wouldn't need to commission art [Keith: Right.] for the game masters’ cards.
Keith: Mm-hmm. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: It’s so good.
Keith: What does the card do? Do you remember?
Jack: It sends all the trespassers on the island— or it sends the trespassers you cast it on to a random place. This is essentially just sort of, like, a minor setback for the Phantom Troupe. I don't think that this guy— so, he teleports the Phantom Troupe away, [Keith: Yeah.] all to different places.
Keith: My translation says it teleports them to a random place on the Azian continent.
Sylvia: Yes. That’s what mine says as well.
Dre: Oh, interesting.
Keith: Azian spelled A-Z-I-A-N here.
Jack: Oh. I had assumed it—
Keith: In keeping with the slightly askew geographical names for things in Hunter × Hunter.
Jack: I did not get that at all. It said a random place. I had assumed it was a card that sent you somewhere on Greed Island.
Dre: That’s what I assumed too.
Keith: No, no. They have gone to a random place in Hunter × Hunter’s Asia.
Jack: Well, that’s kind of where Chrollo’s going too, so that’s fine.
Keith: Well, looking at the map, I don't think we know for sure that Azia is in the east here.
Jack: Chrollo’s going east. That’s true. I thought that way, because of where Asia is relative to North America.
Keith: Right.
Jack: Well, sort of. You could also go west and find it, but it would be a different— it would be kind of a weird way of doing it. The Earth is round.
Keith: We talk about it like it’s east.
Jack: [laughs quietly] Yes, that’s true.
Keith: We say east.
Sylvia: Our Earth is round, yeah.
Jack: Our Earth is round.
Keith: Our Earth is round.
Jack: There's an item that you can get for fighting Razor. 
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: There's a sort of, like, Lord British situation going on here where the Game Masters are also, like, sort of part of the game. Lord British is Richard Garriott, a game designer [Keith: Mm-hmm.] who sort of did pioneering work in early MMOs.
Keith: Was he the first civilian in space?
Jack: He also was the first civilian— he’s phenomenally wealthy and therefore is a complete spectacular weirdo. 
Keith: [laughter] Yep.
Jack: Part of the way he made his money was by— he invented the Ultima Online series of MMOs, along with the rest of his team, and he had a character. His character was called Lord British in the game, and in one of them, I think it was Ultima Online, during a parade when Lord British was set to walk, the developers had set the game flags incorrectly, and Lord British was immediately assassinated by the players.
Sylvia: One of the coolest things to ever happen in a game.
Jack: That and Corrupted Blood are, like, some of my favorite [Sylvia: Yeah.] an MMO actually started producing really interesting emergent play. It’s great. So, this is kind of what’s going on here with Razor. You get an item by fighting him. And then he spikes a huge volleyball of light!
Keith: It’s so good.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: At their boat.
Keith: Massive explosion.
Jack: [laughing quietly] Explodes it. It’s great.
Keith: It blows their, you know, good size boat here.
Sylvia: Killing Nobunaga in the process.
Jack: Nobunaga’s still in the boat. [Keith and Jack laugh] Yeah, this is one of the most impressive Nen attacks that we've seen in Hunter × Hunter.
Sylvia: It’s real cool looking.
Keith: It’s very cool.
Jack: You know what this is?
Keith: It’s Dragon Ball Z-esque. It’s approaching the dragon.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Zeno’s dragon.
Jack: It’s also kind of dodgeball.
Keith: It’s also kind of dodgeball.
Dre: It’s also very similar to the thing that Gon is doing…is it this episode or next episode, where he’s like…?
Jack: Oh, yeah. Yeah, Gon’s about to start doing this, yeah.
Dre: Yeah, where he starts throwing the Nen energy from his fingertip.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: But yeah, you know, I can now say with confidence that Biscuit is visible in the back of the gorilla playing dodgeball screenshot that you sent me.
Keith: Oh, do you have that screenshot? Can I see it?
Jack: No, I don't have it.
Sylvia: Ah, the gorilla lives rent free in your mind. [Keith laughs]
Jack: [laughs] The gorilla does live rent free.
Sylvia: I'm so proud of myself.
Keith: Well, it’s the final piece.
Sylvia: No, I know, but still, it’s, like, been so hard to put together.
Jack: It was so funny the way that the gorilla was such an immediate— it’s like I stepped up to the plate and you threw a curveball immediately. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Was this mine? Was this mine? It was mine, right?
Jack: Uh…
Keith: I can't remember. It’s maybe the one I thought about the most.
Sylvia: No.
Jack: No, it was Keith’s. Sylvi, you picked the Troupe, right?
Sylvia: Did I pick the Troupe? I thought I picked goriller.
Keith: Maybe I picked the Troupe. I can't remember anymore. I can't remember. They've all been— they've all—
Sylvia: We'll check the tape, but I feel like I…I thought I picked the goriller, but maybe I'm wrong.
Keith: Hmm. What was the first one that we…?
Jack: The gorilla.
Keith: No, sorry, I mean what was the chronologically the first…
Jack: Oh, the Troupe.
Keith: Okay. Troupe and then arm wrestling.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: And then arm wrestling.
Sylvia: Arm wrestling was your one, wasn't it?
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Oh, actually, technically I think Austin’s call-in one—
Jack: Oh, Austin in Heaven’s Arena.
Keith: Which was the water.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: From, yeah, from Heavens Arena.
Jack: Me, confidently: “They're doing a spell.” [Keith laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Kind of.
Keith: Kind of.
Jack: This is episode 0 in this feed, if you want to see me try and learn what Hunter × Hunter is from first principles.
Sylvia: The stream is on our YouTube as well, if you don't want to check the description for images, but you should just listen. It’s a good time.
Jack: Gon is developing a rock paper scissors Nen technique. So far, he can only do rock. This is very Leorio has only learned Ten. And he’s using different sort of aspects of the Nen wheel. The rock is an Enhancer technique, the paper is an Emitter technique, and scissors is a Transmuter technique. Biscuit thinks this technique is sound. She’s like, “Yeah, this is pretty good.”
Keith: But what else does she think?
Jack: But she does think it’s childish.
Keith: It’s childish.
Jack: [laughing quietly] Biscuit, I have some news for you.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Hey, how old is Gon?
Keith: Not everyone that looks like a child is 57 years old.
Dre: Yeah. [Jack laughs quietly]
Sylvia: Saying that to anime Twitter. [Keith and Jack laugh]
Dre: Phew! No, for parts of anime Twitter, that’s more like 1000 year old, but…
Sylvia: You know, regardless.
Keith: There's a range.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: That is part of the stock character that Biscuit is though, right?
Sylvia: Absolutely.
Jack: That’s worth saying, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Like, Biscuit is absolutely part of the anime stock character of, like, this person looks like a little girl, but they're actually X many years old.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: With all the kind of gross shit that that can often spill out into. But here, it is— we got a little bit of that with Binolt sort of eating her hair and realizing, you know, that she’s actually 57, but here it’s mostly that she’s like a pint-sized psychopath with 57 years of Nen training.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Actually, she says she’s been studying Nen for 40 years, I think?
Keith: 40 years.
Sylvia: 40 years, so she started when she was 17.
Jack: Oh, wow. She— looking at Gon and Killua: she came to Nen late. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Yeah. Yeah.
Sylvia: She’s putting them in AAU for Nen. [Dre and Jack laugh]
Dre: I have a question. Do we think that Gon’s rock paper scissors move is an example of a Nen power with conditions? Like, when my hand is the rock, I do this move? When it’s the scissors, I do this?
Jack: Oh, that’s such a good question.
Sylvia: I don't quite know.
Keith: Huh.
Dre: Or is that just like, you know, Gon just moves differently to do different moves?
Jack: I think he’s just styling with it.
Dre: Yeah, that’s what I think too, but I don't remember if we ever get this actually answered or not.
Keith: Yeah, I don't know either.
Jack: It would be really funny if Gon…
Keith: Gave a very light condition.
Jack: Hears about Nen conditions once and starts accidentally applying them. [Dre laughs] That’s a very Gon thing to do.
Sylvia: Yeah, it is.
Jack: Yeah. She says…Gon is sort of like, “Well, I just like rock paper scissors,” and she says something that I thought was really interesting, which was like, “That’s fine.” You know, it’s good to just kind of have that. She says, “Gut feelings play a role in Nen techniques that involve different Nen disciplines.”
Sylvia: “Your power should feel right to you,” is the line she says, and then it’s followed by Killua being like, “Hey, check this out.” [Dre laughs]
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Which is: hey, here’s this thing that hurts me every time I use it and is a symbol of the fucking arduous torture my family put me through. What was that you just said about abilities feeling right?
Keith: I should say, we don't— I think that we just suppose that it might hurt him. I don't think that that is either true or false.
Sylvia: Yeah, but the way everyone talks about it with the Nen is, like, the only way you can withstand turning your Nen into electricity is if you can withstand the electricity.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: I always thought it was— 'cause it’s like the image training that Kurapika did with the chains, where in order to do it, you have to understand electricity so much, and the only way to understand electricity that much is to have experienced a lot of it, and Killua is a kid, [Dre: Yeah.] a preteen, and so…
Sylvia: I just, it always struck me as something— 'cause, like, we get the line of, like, just because— the line from Heavens Arena, the “Just because it, like, [Keith: Yeah.] looks like it doesn't hurt me doesn't mean it doesn't.”
Keith: Yeah, I'm not trying to say it definitely doesn't hurt him or it definitely— I just also don't want to say that it definitely does, because they don't ever say that.
Sylvia: Sure. 
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I mean, I'm not really talking about canonicity here. I'm just talking about my read.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: ‘Cause it’s…
Sylvia: Which, like, a lot of Killua stuff comes back to, like, trying to recontextualize a lot of traumas.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yep.
Sylvia: And, like, a lot of the suffering that he’s been through, and it’s really self-destructive. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: My impulse is just that it feels like it’s maybe different when it’s your own Nen.
Sylvia: Sure.
Keith: In the same way that, like, Ren doesn't hurt. But I don't know. I genuinely don't know. Maybe this is answered somewhere, but yeah, I'm just— it could go either way, to me.
Jack: Biscuit is now the second adult that is afraid of his power.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: She calls this— we actually get a lot of Biscuit internal monologue through these episodes.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: She says that his power is tragic and says that his childhood must have been a living hell.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: “It’s a miracle that he can smile now.” And she looks up, and we get Killua smiling, looking at Gon; and Gon smiling, looking at Killua; [Sylvia: Yeah.] and then back to Biscuit as she, like, puts that together, and she says, “Indeed.”
Sylvia: She’s fujoing out.
Jack: I know. [Dre laughs] Well, it’s so funny that, like, Biscuit, you just said that his childhood must have been a living hell. Do you want to reevaluate the last, you know, month?
Dre: No.
Sylvia: No!
Jack: No, I don't think we need to do that.
Sylvia: He’s 12 now. He’s an adult. [Jack laughs quietly]
Dre: Listen.
Keith: And then Gon calls Killua an electric eel, and Killua’s like, “That’s a bad comparison!”
Sylvia: It’s adorable. [Keith laughs]
Dre: [sarcastic] Listen, if Biscuit wasn't going to train Killua, then all of that childhood trauma would be for nothing.
Jack: Oh, sure. Polish the rough gem.
Dre: Gotta make it worthwhile. [Sylvia sighs]
Jack: I do quickly want to dial into the gut feelings play a role in Nen techniques that involve different Nen disciplines and talk about maybe the big gut feeling that we've seen on the show, which is Machi’s hunches.
Keith: Mm.
Dre: Hmm.
Jack: I wonder if Togashi is saying something about Machi’s, uh…the Phantom Troupe are too good at Nen to really think of themselves on the Nen wheel, beyond just being like, “Oh, I guess he must be a Conjurer,” or whatever, but I wonder if Machi is doing some of that sort of, like, Nen spread betting, as it were, and that is what’s bubbling up in her hunches.
Keith: Yeah. Maybe the threads are not strictly as metaphorical as we said that they might be.
Jack: Uh, let’s see. Oh, extremely funny sidebar now.
Keith: Oh, right.
Jack: As they all suddenly realize that the deadline for the Hunter Exam is coming up. [Jack and Dre laugh]
Keith: Oh, right. So, Bisky is starting to feel— so, I do want to— Bisky is starting to feel bad about how hard they've worked, after thinking about all this stuff about Killua, and is like, “I want to throw them a party, because it’s New Years,” and this is [Sylvia: Yeah.] when they all realize: “Oh fuck, I have to go take the Hunter Exam. I haven't really brought this up, but I've been waiting all year to take the Hunter Exam.” [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: It’s so funny, and Bisky is so excited to party that, the more they talk about this, we get some of these great, like, background shots of her that we got in the early episodes where she’s, like, visibly mad.
Keith: Yeah, because she wants to have a tea party, and Gon’s like, “No, we have no time. We have to go.”
Jack: Yeah. You can also leave the island by defeating or bribing a Harbormaster, the island’s only port. Lightning explodes from the Harbormaster’s shack, [Keith: Yes.] as Killua just cursorily defeats the Harbormaster. [Dre laughs] 
Sylvia: It’s so funny.
Dre: So good.
Keith: Yeah, Killua beats the Harbormaster in one second.
Jack: Yeah. He says, [laughs quietly] “Well, I'll go ace the exam and come right back,” and Gon tells him about the Kiriko. This is just so joyful to me. I can't tell which we're going to get, because Togashi would do either. Either we're going to get a completely offscreen Hunter Exam and Killua returns with his Hunter License, or we're going to get an extremely truncated Hunter Exam montage, which is going to be really funny, or something way more, like, the Hunter Exam becomes a problem and we dial into it. But I think it’s going to be one of the first two options, and either is going to be so funny.
Keith: Uh, hold on. We have to type to each other. [Sylvia, Dre, and Jack laugh]
Sylvia: I made the face.
Jack: [chuckles] Does he know?
Keith: It’s funny, because we can say that, [Jack: Yep.] but Jack still doesn't know which way we mean.
Sylvia: Yep.
Jack: No, no. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Because they gave us options.
Keith: Right.
Jack: Well, I just know that I, you know, blessed with the gift of prophecy, [Dre laughs] and I see all the acolytes down on the other end of the temple going: [excited whispering]
Keith: It’s so cute, though.
Sylvia: There's a lot of us just going, “Warmer…warmer…” [Jack and Keith laugh]
Keith: It’s so cute with the Kiriko. I'm very excited.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah.
Keith: And we do get a second of that later, and it’s even cuter.
Dre: Love those dudes.
Keith: But the thing that happens in between there is we get Abengane finds Gon and Bisky to tell them about the Bomber.
Jack: Oh, briefly, Bisky’s teaching Gon how to do the Gyo trick with the numbers. Bisky, like, produces a perfect 5 above her finger.
Keith: Oh, right.
[2:00:00]
Jack: And Gon produces, like, this extremely wobbly 6.
Keith: And this is— what is this? Do you think this is an Emitter lesson? This is an Emitter lesson.
Jack: Yeah, I think so.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, so he’s trying to perfect his Emission, so let’s give you my little—
Sylvia: Trying to reduce his carbon footprint. [Keith laughs]
Keith: So, yeah, during this— oh, Gon smashes into a tree, because they're running and he’s concentrating too hard. And then Abengane finds them to tell them all about the Bomber. He catches them all up on what’s happening. He shows up. He has the visible horrible bomb on his shoulder, I think?
Jack: Yeah, it’s on his shoulder.
Keith: And he basically goes, “I don't believe that the Bomber is going to not kill us, so I'm trying to warn everybody about the Bomber. We can't fight, because we're just too weak. Jispa was already our strongest fighter, and he died in one second. He asks Gon and Bisky to spread the word about the Bomber and to avenge them if they all die, to not let the Bomber win. And he’s basically like, “You're the only people I can trust,” but then he leaves and goes, “Heheh, you're actually the only people I could find,” which is such a weird… [Keith and Sylvia laugh]
Sylvia: It’s really funny.
Dre: [chuckles] Fucking got ‘em.
Keith: He says, “Even a pig can climb a tree, if you give it enough praise,” saying like, “I was just buttering them up.” Of course, Gon is actually the most trustworthy person on Greed Island. He didn't have to lie to them at all.
Sylvia: That’s 'cause Gon trusts everybody.
Keith: Right.
Jack: This little Abengane sequence is a real, um…you know, we see a lot of Nen in this show, but sometimes Togashi really dims the lights, you know, and comes out on stage with his little lectern and says, “And now, some serious Nen,” and the curtains open, and he shows us a new kind of freak.
[clip of “Mystic Land” begins playing]
Jack: [chuckles] This is so fucked up. Abengane implies— he says, “Any thousandth of a percent counts, when it comes to deactivating someone’s Nen.”
Keith: Deactivating Nen, huh?
Jack: Deactivating Nen, huh?
Sylvia: Huh.
Dre: Hmm.
[music ends]
Jack: Before all of the stuff that happens happens, I was like, “Ah, this is how they're going to do it. This is how we get Chrollo back on screen. We have met someone who can remove— or seems to be able to remove Nen. I wonder how he’s going to do this.” Well, he starts chanting over a wooden doll that he holds, and he’s specifically calling on the spirits of the forest to remove unclean Nen. I wrote down, “Is he a Nen shaman?” He’s— it’s weird, right? You know, first that you're calling on spirits. This isn't Demon World, but it’s sort of adjacent.
Sylvia: I wrote down, “Oh, Demon World Theory tonight, queen?” in my notes when this started happening. [Jack and Dre laugh]
Keith: I forgot to think about Demon World Theory when this happened, but sure, yeah, it’s very—
Sylvia: I never forget to think about Demon World Theory.
Dre: Yeah. 
Keith: It’s very witchy.
Jack: And then he throws it into the fire, and, like, an old god emerges from the fire. Like, this sort of terrible twisted small worm.
Keith: It’s like—
Jack: With bulging eyes.
Dre: But not small.
Keith: It’s like— yeah, it’s like—
Jack: No, yeah.
Keith: Yeah, it’s, like, six feet long, and it’s like if a centipede was made out of, like, a human fetus?
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, like wood and flesh. It’s, like, moaning. It has this awful, like, square mouth that is, like, smacking its lips.
Dre: Oh, its lips and teeth are ughhhh.
Sylvia: So grody.
Keith: Yeah, it’s really bad.
Jack: And it climbs up Abengane.
Keith: Oh, it looks kind of like the flatworm monster from X-Files.
Dre: Oh.
Jack: It also looks like something from JoJo. This is, like, an Araki-ass creature. It climbs up Abengane and starts eating the bomb off his shoulder. And it’s well-timed, because at that point, Nickes’s team sort of, like, hands over the cards that they've got, and the Bomber does exactly what you think he’s going to do, which is, you know, “I said I would release you…from your sorry lives!” and he blows them all up.
Dre: In the dub, he says, “You're all losers, and I don't keep promises to losers.”
Jack: Ha!
Keith: Oh, yeah. Mine says that, but scum. “You're all scum. I don't keep promises to scum.”
Dre: Ah, okay.
Keith: Sorry, Jack. What did yours say?
Jack: Oh, uh, the same thing.
Keith: Oh, sorry.
Jack: I was paraphrasing. Yeah, everybody in the cave dies. Nickes dies. Basically the entire clear team is killed except Abengane, who is stuck with the worm until either the Bomber dies or reverses his Nen ability. This worm is sort of just, like, clinging to him, making awful sounds. And so he covers himself up in a yellow poncho and a big wide hat to hide the worm. This is a costume change from one kind of distinctive costume, this blue doublet [Sylvia: Yeah.] with the white piping on it, to another very distinctive costume, neither of which are related. I thought that was really interesting.
Keith: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I have a question.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: So, do you guys think that this creature is— and maybe this is said and I missed it, and apologies if so. Do you think this weird critter is visible to the naked eye, or do you have to use Gyo to see it?
Dre: Ooh.
Keith: I believe it’s visible to the naked eye.
Sylvia: I also do.
Dre: Yeah, me too.
Jack: I think so too. I think if you…if you're putting the poncho on, [laughs quietly] you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Right.
Jack: You're anticipating that someone’s probably going to see it. Oh, Keith! Get that out of here. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Ah, there he is!
Dre: Yeah, Keith, I don't like that. Get that out of here.
Sylvia: It really is the Flukeman, though!
Keith: It really is the Flukeman.
Jack: Keith posted the Flukeman from X-Files. Ugh!
Sylvia: This motherfucker posted the Flukeman in the groupchat. 
Keith: I'll delete it. I'll delete it. [Dre laughs]
Jack: Ew.
Sylvia: Was the Flukeman there? [Dre laughs]
Keith: By the way, in that Flukeman costume is Darin Morgan, writer of some of the best episodes of X-Files.
Sylvia: Yes.
Jack: Oh, fun.
Sylvia: The GOAT.
Jack: That doesn't look like it would be a fun costume to wear.
Keith: No, no.
Jack: I mean, it’d be fun for 10 seconds, to be like, “I look creepy as shit,” but…
Keith: And I remember his brother wrote a ton of episodes of The X-Files, got him the job and then got him in the writers’ room.
Dre: Hmm.
Jack: Oh, that’s cool. 
Sylvia: Wrote the best episodes.
Jack: Killua is off hanging out with the Kiriko. They are having tea and chatting, and the Kiriko are like, “Yeah, sure, you smell like Gon. We'll take you to the—” Is the implication that the Kiriko are blind here?
Sylvia: Uh…
Keith: No, they're just sniffing because they're animals.
Sylvia: Yeah, they're dogs.
Dre: Yeah, 'cause they're animals.
Jack: I thought they said, “I wish we could see.” I thought one of them said—
Keith: No, I wish we could see Gon. They want to see Gon.
Jack: Oh, oh, I see.
Keith: They miss Gon. They want to see him again.
Jack: Right, right, right.
Keith: Sorry. This is not important. Glen Morgan, that’s the brother. Glen Morgan and James Wong, underrated because of how popular the Darin Morgan episodes are. 
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, also true.
Keith: Glen Morgan wrote a bunch of episodes, great episodes of X-Files.
Jack: Meanwhile, Biscuit hopes that Gon will have got his technique, his rock paper scissors technique sorted by the time Killua comes back.
Keith: Great joke right here.
Jack: What? How does it play?
Keith: Oh, so he’s trying to hit the rock with his Emitter technique. This is where Gon’s like, “How long will it take? How long will it take?”
Jack: Oh, yeah.
Keith: And it’s like, “I bet you can hit the rock by the end of the day,” and he’s like, “Yes!” and then he shoots it and he hits it, next try. [laughs] 
Dre: Yeah. 
Jack: Yeah. Classic. I wrote down, “Gon plays his usual game of learning something instantly that people think will take a while.”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Oh, a massive shipment of spell cards has arrived in Masadora. This is the game balancing itself. These are all the spell cards owned by the players that got killed by the Bomber.
Sylvia: Yeah. Right place, right time, huh?
Jack: Yeah. Yep. This is also what I talked about in the last episode about, like, this is the kind of unintended loophole of Greed Island that has been producing all this killing is, you know— well, it’s one of the reasons. You know, it’s keeping down the card conversion limit, the cap, and it’s also, you know, producing new spell cards. Not new types of spell cards, but it’s producing fresh spell cards for the surviving players.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Uh, let me see.
Keith: I've lost my note page. Okay. 
Jack: Biscuit and Gon get some cards. They got Prison, which is the card we talked about last time. Protects a sheet of cards. That’s probably going to be useful. Biscuit has cast a spell called Blackout Curtain, which is going to block one sort of attempt to scry by the opponents.
Keith: Right.
Jack: Something that we had earlier that I forgot, because I thought it was later in my notes…ah, shit. Did I write this note and forget about it? It was between the gut feelings scene, and like, it’s important to do what feels right when you're learning. There's a bit where she says something like, “This might take you a while to learn. Don't worry about trying it all at once.” There are these moments where Biscuit is very occasionally, like, a kind of patient teacher.
Keith: Uh huh.
Jack: And it’s always a very funny contrast for me that she, like, stumbles into being patient or, like, thoughtful in her teaching and then is also like, “Fight to the death in the pit.” [Keith laughs]
Keith: Hey, a well-rounded educator. [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. Reminds me of my gym teacher.
Jack: And then I think that’s about it.
Keith: That’s about it, yeah.
Jack: That’s about it for now. We end with Killua off at the Hunter Exam, Gon training with Biscuit.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: The Phantom Troupe have been teleported to Azia. 
Sylvia: [laughs] That’s a really funny way to put it. [Dre laughs] 
Keith: Oh, did we say what Razor says about them right before he destroys their ship?
Jack: Oh, he’s like, “They're serious business.”
Keith: He says—
Jack: I don't think he knows that they're the Phantom Troupe.
Keith: He goes, “Huh, that’s one intimidating group of people, I can tell you that.”
Jack: It’s great. It’s so funny. [Jack and Keith laugh]
Keith: Right after he’s been, like— he kind of happily encourages them to return the right way and then to challenge them. He’s like—
Jack: Yeah, it is funny how the Phantom Troupe get in the game. Shalnark gets in the game, figures out its secret, leaves, and then brings his entire party who immediately get IP banned. [Keith and Dre laugh]
Keith: Well, yeah, come back through the front door, and then we can fight. It’ll be fun.
Dre: Yeah. Go buy a new Xbox from Walmart, and then we can get back on Xbox Live.
Jack: They have one. They gotta get the multilink.
Keith: They've got the multitap. They already have the multitap.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, they're good to go.
Keith: Yeah, they're prepared.
Jack: Well, it’s just that the Phantom Troupe were like, “We just want to rob you,” [Keith laughs] so, you know. 
Keith: Well, they do have their— they have their motives to be there.
Jack: Uh, sort of. I don't know— as far as I know, their motives to be there are to steal everything they can.
Sylvia: Did…?
Keith: I feel like they've said why they're there, but I'm…
Jack: No, I don't think they have.
Sylvia: I don't quite remember if it came up with the Shalnark theory scene.
Dre: No. I don't think…yeah, I don't think so.
Sylvia: Yeah, okay, we should— we'll be careful, then, and not mention anything.
Jack: Yeah. My note says, um…yeah, my note— oh, here’s what my note says: “The Troupe is trying to rob the game. The Troupe is going to try and rob the game without completing it. They want a card called Eye of God, which lets them have information about cards at any time.” I think that’s all we have so far.
Sylvia: Yeah, okay. 
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: Cool.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. So, yeah, we do not know why they're interested yet.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: There's been an implication, I think, so far, but I won't bring it…
Sylvia: The implication.
Dre: This is one of those cases where they have shown all the puzzle pieces, and because the three of us know how the puzzle pieces fit together…
Keith: Yes. Right.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: But also, they haven't shown, like, the very— the once piece that goes right in the center of everything.
Dre: Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: So we should probably keep it down.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Final Thoughts [2:11:25]
Keith: Anything else about these episodes before we close it out?
Sylvia: The Greed Island tutorial for this last one is adorable. It’s about the spell that hides the binder from people, like keeps them from looking in your binder, and that’s where the— I posted a screenshot earlier of Gon blushing at Killua.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Because he says, “You can look at my binder any time you want, Killua,” and then Killua goes, “Huh?” and his head gets really big and he’s blushing. [Dre laughs] 
Jack: Oh!
Sylvia: It’s really funny, and I know, Jack, you've appreciated that energy in the Hunterpedia before, so.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It’s great. I'm gonna look at this little…
Keith: There's another one in the last episode that’s really funny. I forgot to bring it up at the end of 64. But Gon is, like, having withdrawals from being in the game for too long, is, like, on the floor, rocking back and forth, and Killua’s like, “If you leave, I'll take all your cards,” and then Gon calls him a stupid onliner. [Sylvia and Jack laugh]
Dre: Damn.
Sylvia: Oh, I'm stealing that one! Oh my god! 
Jack: Oh, that’s great.
Dre: Fucking touch grass, Killua.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: As we get a bit of Biscuit saying the…she says something like, “The love between two young boys is a wonderful thing. I can't wait to ruin it,” earlier in the thing.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I can't help but remembering, Keith, much earlier in the project, you described Hunter × Hunter as a show about a boyfriend and another person.
Keith: Yes. Yes.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: A boyfriend and a friend or something.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And I just, I wanted to bring that up, so that it fixed itself in my mind as a thing to keep watching for.
Keith: Mm-hmm. I think the last episode is big on that energy.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Sorry, not the last episode. Our last set of episodes had a lot of that, yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: I think, like…the case that Killua Zoldyck is falling in love with Gon Freecss is being presented, you know?
Jack: Yeah. That’s what I— yeah.
Keith: Being presented? It’s ironclad.
Sylvia: It’s iron-fucking-clad.
Keith: At this point, it’s ironclad. I mean, with the—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Take the Illumi stuff from the end of the Hunter Exam. Take the trip back to Whale Island, where—
Sylvia: Thank you so much, Keith. [Jack chuckles]
Keith: And then the stuff from the last set of episodes. It’s essentially inarguable.
Sylvia: I just…I want to say that I'm right for having brought it up during the Hunter Exam that they are boyfriends.
Jack: And we'll probably see more of this, but the argument that you're making essentially is that Killua is like, “Do you love me?” and Gon is like, “Of course I love you. I love the trees. I love the birds.”
Keith: Yes. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: “I love the person over there that I just met.”
Dre: Mm.
Jack: “I love the seals that I see in the water by the…” You know?
Keith: Yes.
Jack: “I love Leorio. I love Kurapika.”
Sylvia: Killua showing a picture like, “We look like such a couple here,” and Gon going, “A couple of besties!” [Jack and Keith laugh]
Keith: Jack, do you happen to remember what Ali said about why she became interested in Hunter × Hunter?
Jack: No, no.
Keith: Okay.
Jack: I have, like, a vague memory here.
Keith: Well, then.
Jack: But I don't remember.
Keith: Then I won't tell you.
Jack: Okay. Exciting.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I just think that, you know, as we're getting further into this, and Gon and Killua’s relationship is sort of being drawn with more and more detail, it is worth kind of returning to this topic every so often.
Keith: Yeah. Yes.
Jack: It’s a good show. 
Keith: I think that—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: I didn't like this first episode very much, but I was won around. It’s a fun show to—
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: The thing is, Hunter × Hunter is a really fun show to watch.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Jack: Which is, you know.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Look, sometimes you've got— between every time you bowl a strike, the machine has to pick the pins back up.
Jack: [laughs quietly] Yes, it’s true.
Sylvia: Damn.
Jack: It is true. And you look over at the other side of the bowling alley, and Togashi is coming in through the door with, like, 28 absolutely weirdos that you've never seen before.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: One of them eats a bowling ball, you know.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: It’s the price—
Sylvia: Doing the “Don't mess with the Jesus” ball cleaning thing.
Jack: [laughs] Yes.
Keith: It’s the price of every time the show sets up something that feels like it’s so obviously going to happen that you don't even question it, and then, like, literally— it doesn't just take a left turn. You're like, “Oh, we're on a different street than I thought we were on.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: That is—
Sylvia: To roll with the bowling metaphor, it’s like if he’s going to roll a strike and then it jumps over to the lane next to it and then hits the strike. 
Keith: Yeah, and rolls a strike in the other lane, yeah.
Jack: [laughs quietly] Yes.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: And that is the cost of that, is that you have episodes that are learning episodes.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: That’s a good way to put it, Keith. I like that metaphor a lot.
Keith: Thank you.
Jack: Yeah. I mean, just the Bomber is a really good example of this, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: You know, we start going one way, and then…
Sylvia: [laughs quietly] That fucking guy.
Jack: The Bomber shows up.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Really throws a wrench in the whole thing.
Keith: With his piano, singing McDonalds songs.
Jack: [laughs] He really does look like that, although it’s worth saying that the—
Sylvia: He’s Mac Tonight.
Jack: Mac Tonight’s head is a crescent moon, and the Bomber’s head is just a man’s head.
Sylvia: Right, yeah.
Keith: No, it is a crescent moon! [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: It is a crescent moon. I really hope someone was listening to this just being like, “This is really rude to whatever guy they're talking about.” [Jack and Keith laugh]
Keith: I mean, you can't— I cannot overstate how much Genthru’s chin looks like Mac Tonight’s chin.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: What are we watching next time?
Sylvia: Just remember: don't go to— the boycott.
Keith: Next time, we're watching three episodes. We're watching episodes 66, 67, and 68. Those episodes are “Strategy × And × Scheme”, “15 × 15”, and “Pirates × And × Guesses”. 
Sylvia: Hell yeah. Oh, we got some good shit coming up.
Keith: Yeah, we do. Yeah, we do.
Jack: I can't— I cannot play the interpretive game of Hunter × Hunter titles.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Oh, of titles, sure. I was gonna say, “Yeah, you can. You've been playing it this whole time.” 
Jack: [laughs] But, you know, the titles are so specific once you know what they're talking about.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And if you don't know what they're talking about, you are just completely lost.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: So I have given up trying to…
Keith: You can go to episode 73, or 74, and it’s called, “Victor × And × Loser”, and you think, “Oh, it’s gonna be about a guy who wins and a guy who loses?” Nope. They introduce a character named Victor.
Jack: [laughs] Yes.
Keith: And his wastoid brother.
Jack: The Loser.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. It’s a good show. Uh, do we have anything else we want to say?
Keith: Go to friendsatthetable.cash. Support the show.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: This is a show that takes a lot of time and a lot of effort to make, and if you like it, even if you don't listen to Friends at the Table, but especially if you listen to Friends at the Table, you should be signed up on friendsatthetable.cash, supporting this show and that show and all the streaming we do, et cetera. Hey, if you're on the Friends at the Table Reddit…
Sylvia: Whoa.
Keith: Find out an appropriate Reddit— because that’s a thing that people go on. There's people over there. It’s a nice place full of people who like Friends at the Table.
Sylvia: Cool.
Keith: If you're also liking this show—
Sylvia: Hey, shoutout.
Keith: Shoutout. If you're also liking this show, find the appropriate place to go talk about this show on Reddit. Tell them about this— tell people who like Hunter × Hunter about this show. Find them online. Tell them about it.
Jack: I can't go to the Hunter × Hunter subreddit at all, and in fact, I can't— I don't even google Hunter × Hunter.
Keith: Mm-hmm. You really can't.
Jack: I've talked about this on the show before. If they want to google things, they can just google them at any time they want.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I think early in the show, I asked for a picture of Tonpa, and a picture of Tonpa was provided.
Keith: Yeah. You can't even go onto a website and be like, “What kind of backpacks are they selling about Hunter × Hunter?”
Jack: No, it’s really weird. And, you know, if I were watching the show on my own, I would be less focused on that, but I do have, like— because, you know, I'm on the internet. Sometimes I see people talking about Hunter × Hunter and talking about things that I don't know, and then my eyes— I get a spike of stress in my brain, and my eyes go sliding off the screen, which means that I've probably seen a couple of spoilers for, like, a quarter of a second, and then I've moved away from them very quickly.
Keith: Mm-hmm. It’s dangerous out there.
Jack: Chrollo is Gon’s dad.
Keith: [laughs] Speaking of Chrollo being Gon’s dad…
Sylvia: No. We can't make Chrollo Gon’s dad, because I hate Gon’s dad as part of my brand.
Dre: That’s true.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: Oh no. [laughs] Oh no.
Keith: Oh, you ever see, like, an ‘80s cartoon, and you tell a robot a lie, and its brain explodes?
Jack: Yeah, and it sparks and stuff. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: That’s what’s happening to me right now.
Keith: Wait, Chrollo, Gon’s dad? But I— 
Sylvia: But I hate him.
Keith: Hate, love, what? [Jack chuckles] Do we have—
Sylvia: It’d just end with me saying something unfortunate I don't want recorded, so. 
Jack: Ha!
Keith: Do we have, uh…did anybody that isn't Jack go and look at some reviews to read out?
Sylvia: Fuck!
Keith: Because of the— we did the thing with the fake spoilers that we had.
Sylvia: I'll go peek.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: Are there any…?
Keith: I see the one that you read last time, “Leorio back shots.”
Sylvia: Leorio back shots, yeah. Um, this one’s not really a spoiler, [laughs quietly] but it is called “Very Real spoiler,” from hubbubpuff: “Gon is a scorpio.” 
Jack: Oh.
Sylvia: I don't know if that’s true.
Dre: Hmm.
Jack: Oh, well, I don't think Gon can be a scorpio, because if it’s— because it’s Yoshihiro Togashi, star signs work in a different way in the Hunter × Hunter world.
Sylvia: Mm.
Jack: And there's, like, 48 of them, and, you know.
Sylvia: No, I'm on the Canadian reviews again.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: I was like, “Why are there only 50 of these?”
Keith: Here’s one. Here’s one. This one, five star review.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: “These Friends and This Podcast”, but in Hunter style title with X’s in there.
Sylvia: Nice.
Keith: From JMiles. “A fantastic podcast that reliably provides fresh perspectives and insights I would never have noticed otherwise. I already enjoyed Hunter × Hunter, and this podcast regularly gives me new reasons to appreciate it! I can’t wait for the group to realize the entire thing takes place in a massive simulation!”
Jack: Ha!
Keith: “‘Hacker Hisoka’ is literally true; that’s how he can do things like break the fourth wall to interact with the narrator and audience, as well as measure his opponents’ ‘memory capacity.’ That’s also why Nen powers and conditions, et cetera, all follow the rules of basic programming logic. Fortune-telling the future is simply a predictive analytical model! Obviously, this also explains the Chimera Ants: they’re bugs.”
Jack: Oh, they're just simply computer bugs.
Sylvia: Yep.
Keith: They're simply computer bugs.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Damn.
Jack: Oh, two little details that I noticed. Way back in episode 61, which ends with Bisky observing Gon and Killua and saying, “The friendship and innocence of two young boys is such a beautiful thing. It makes me want to ruin it,” and then the narrator closing out says, “Who is the girl watching them?” and Bisky looks up and pulls a face. This is a trait that only Hisoka has previously shown [Keith laughs] in the show, is the ability to see the narrator.
Keith: Good catch. I didn't even notice that.
Jack: Which is, you know? When I wrote that down, I was like, “I wonder why she’s doing that,” and having seen how she teaches people, I'm like, “Ohh. Ohh.” The other note I wanted to say is: I had mentioned in the past that Hisoka is visible in the title sequence for the Greed Island Arc, and so I had to imagine that he was going to come and wreak some unholy havoc on the game.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: What he’s actually doing in the title sequence is he is fighting back to back with Gon and Killua, which is interesting.
Keith: Yes. I had a note. I had a note of that, but when you didn't bring it up when we were talking about it, I decided to leave it. [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. I don't bring up anything in the intros anymore, unless Jack notices them first.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Is my new rule.
Keith: Yeah, I had a whole list of things. [Dre sighs]
Jack: I mean, you know, in the same way as talking about the thumbnail earlier, I think that, you know, spotting things in the intro and going, “What is going on there? Who is that?”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: I mean, we saw Chrollo for ages. We saw a bunch of Phantom Troupe members for ages before they were introduced.
Sylvia: Oh, for sure.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: In intros and outros. But I do appreciate you not bringing it up unless I do.
Sylvia: Well, it’s like you said. It’s part of the fun of watching the thing is noticing that stuff, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: And we know it, [Jack: Yeah.] so of course we notice it, but like, [Jack laughs] I want you to have it organically.
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: You don't need me being like, [voice] “They showed off the Nen type in this one, and you can figure it out.” Like, I don't— who cares?
Jack: [same voice] “Yeah, listen to the bass in this sequence.”
Sylvia: Yeah. Like…
Jack: I'm gonna turn it up. Now I'm gonna roll it back. Listen to the bass. 
Sylvia: [laughs] Exactly.
Keith: Oh, uh…okay, last thing. One last thing, and then we're gonna go.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: The reason that I played “Riot” earlier—because it’s on my board again, because I took it off originally—is because they’ve repurposed “Riot”, the song during the assault on the auction in Yorknew City. They've reused a different section of it as, like, the mournful murdering of all of the people that the Bomber has touched song.
Sylvia: God.
Keith: Specifically, it’s this part.
[clip of “Riot” plays]
Keith: It’s right—
Jack: Ah, it’s so good.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Everything that isn't the obvious Spider, like, chorus that’s going.
Jack: Cue. Yeah.
Keith: And weirdly, they— I don't know if anybody else noticed this. It starts off, it’s got this, like, weird sort of staccato piano thing that’s very brief, and it’s not part of the song.
Jack: Oh. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: And I couldn't figure out what it was. Jack, you know what I'm talking about?
Jack: I do. This is— it’s a very, like— it’s a piano played down in the lower register, and it’s very, like, splashy. It has, like, overtones ringing on this piano. They've used it a lot in the show as just sort of, like, a menace cue, and the fact that they're deploying it here with “Riot” is really nice music supervising or arranging to be like, “We can stitch these two things together.” It’s just a little low rumble of the piano in the left hand that they play sometimes. This is why— and I've talked about this in the show. We don't need to go over it again. This is why I don't like to be too fixed with my cues that I'm writing.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Because, you know, if you had said, “Oh, ‘Riot’ is only for the Phantom Troupe wreaking havoc,” then you rob yourself of being able to, you know, use it in sequences like this, which also harken back to a similar use of it the first time. You're saying, “Oh, this isn't about the Phantom Troupe. It’s about, like, wanton unnecessary violence on a large group of people.”
Keith: Right, or like, you know, there's three different songs that they use for any time, like, a new Nen power is introduced, so they've got a lot, but then they use it for anything that’s maybe mysterious: “Auras”, “Latent Power”, and “Mystic Land”. That’s the one that I played earlier. This one.
[clip of “Mystic Land” plays briefly]
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: This gets played, like, any time something is mysterious or they're explaining some new concept. It’s great. They do a really good job of, like, having three different songs that could be anything in this small category of, like, mysterious power sort of thing.
Jack: Yeah. It’s a style of writing motif that I have always found to be really rewarding and also economical as a composer, [laughs quietly] because writing motifs is difficult, and if you can write clearly enough that these things can double, you are doing yourself a service and also stitching together [“The Boy in Green” begins playing] complimentary themes in the listener’s head as the thing goes.
Keith: Okay, bye. [Sylvia laughs]
[Jack starts imitating theme in sync]
[Dre joins in, then Keith and Sylvia]
[song continues playing]
[Jack chuckles]
Keith: I'll match all that up, and it’ll seem— I'll make it seem, like, flawless. [Jack and Keith laugh] It’ll take me 20 minutes to do that, but I will do it.
Sylvia: I believe in you. [Keith laughs]
Jack: Or just have us going out on it solo. We should have one where we just do the theme.
Keith: We do the whole theme? [Jack laughs] I'm sure everyone’s ready for that right now?
[song ends]