The Mafia Community - Hunter x Hunter ep. 42+43: Media Club Plus S01E14
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Introduction        1
Summary [0:05:06]        5
Episode 42 [0:07:53]        8
[0:30:16]        31
[0:51:11]        46
Episode 43 [1:07:15]        58
[1:30:18]        78
[1:50:18]        97
Final Thoughts [2:09:10]        113
Introduction
Keith: You know what I haven't mentioned, and I'll probably have to drop this in at the beginning, ‘cause I forgot, but by the time this is up, both halves of our Dragon Ball bonus episodes will be up on the Patreon, which again is friendsatthetable.cash. So, if you need yet another reason to sign up for the Patreon, listen to us talk about Dragon Ball for a cumulative seven hours. [Dre, Jack, and Keith laugh]
Jack: All right.
Sylvia: You will not regret it.
Keith: You will not regret it. No, it was a blast.
Sylvia: You will regret missing it, honestly.
Keith: You will regret missing it.
Jack: Do you have anything, Dre?
Keith: Your friends will have heard it, and you will be embarrassed when they start talking about—
Dre: Everyone will be saying “Fiddle dee dee,” and you'll be like, “What the fuck?”
Keith: Everyone will be saying “Fiddle dee dee,” and you'll be like, “What are you talking about?” [Jack laughs] and they'll say, “It’s the funniest thing of 2023.”
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: 202D is what they were calling it by the end there.
Keith: 202D.
Jack: [voice] Fiddle dee dee. Fiddle dee dee, Goku. [Dre, Keith, and Sylvia laugh] Who am I being? Who could I be? Listen, and you'll find out.
Keith: Who could that be? Is it King Kai?
Jack: [continuing to do the voice throughout] No.
Dre: It’s Yajirobe.
Jack: No.
Keith: Is it Cell? Is it Yajirobe?
Jack: No.
Keith: [voice] Tune in and find out.
Jack: He’s big and green.
Keith: Oh, it’s a Saibaman.
Jack: No.
Dre: Oh, it’s Dende.
Jack: No.
Keith: Is it Nail?
Sylvia: [laughing] Now we're naming char— we're naming characters Jack doesn't know. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Uh, I don't know. Jack, is it Nail, though?
Jack: No, it’s not Nail.
Sylvia: Oh, it’s Bojack the pirate.
Jack: No, it’s not Bojack either. 
Keith: [laughs] Okay, bye.
[“The Boy in Green” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Dre: Oh, it’s Broly.
Jack: No.
Sylvia: [laughs] Fiddle dee dee.
[song plays out]
Keith: Welcome to Media Club Plus, a podcast about diving into the media that interests us and the stories that excite us. As always, we are brought to you by Friends at the Table. This season, we're watching 2011's Hunter × Hunter, based on the manga by Yoshihiro Togashi. My name is Keith J. Carberry. You can find me on X and Cohost at @KeithJCarberry, and you can find the let’s plays that I do at youtube.com/runbutton. With me today is Andrew Lee Swan.
Dre: Hey. You can find me on Twitter at @swandre3000. If you're a Friends at the Table fan who’s here joining us for the first time, thank you. You're welcome. Thank you for hanging out. 
Keith: Yeah. But go back to episode 1. 
Dre: Please give us a review. Give us a review. 
Keith: Yeah. Give both shows a review on iTunes.
Dre: Yeah, do that. 
Keith: Yeah, do that. Sylvi Bullet.
Sylvia: Hey, I'm Sylvia. You can find me everywhere on the internet, pretty much, at @SYLVIBULLET, and you can check out the show’s TikTok at @friends_table and subscribe to the Twitch at twitch.tv/friendsatthetable and check out the YouTube at youtube.com/friendsatthetable, and…
Keith: Some great recent streams up there.
Sylvia: There’s also the Cohost, which is cohost.org/friends-table. I did it.
Keith: That’s the one weird one, yeah, friends-table.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: And Jack de Quidt.
Jack: Hi, I’m Jack “eerily accurate predictions” de Quidt, here to… [Sylvia and Keith laugh] here to check into Hunter × Hunter. You can get any of the music featured on the show at notquitereal.bandcamp.com, and you can find me on Cohost at @jdq.
Keith: I can't wait to hear which of your predictions were right, because I don't specifically remember any ones for this time.
Jack: I feel like there were a few moments during these episodes where, uh…and I feel like you guys do this too, but it’s sort of cheating, because you know what happens in the show.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: But there were several points that I was watching and I went, “I said that would happen!” [Keith and Sylvia laugh] and then it did.
Keith: Oh, the…yeah, I've got constant trail of rhetorical questions that sound like genuine questions.
Jack: It’s so funny. The thing that’s great is that I've been listening through to the podcast, you know, as it’s released, because we're on a kind of delay deliberately, and so it’s nice to know what people are listening to kind of at the time it comes out, and I've already hit several moments where I have heard y'all asking these sneaky rhetorical questions and already know the answer, and I'm like, “[sighs] They got me.” [Keith laughs] We were— we've been talking about Nen from the beginning but just in secret terms.
Keith: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: The one that trips me up is when I can tell you are asking a question, [laughs quietly] or you have some weird turn of phrase that is so hyper specific, and I'm just waiting for the other shoe to drop [Sylvia: Yeah.] in six months when I listen back to it. Like, I will— you'll be like, “[meaningfully] Wow, bigger than before, right?” and I'll be like— me listening to it, I'll be like, “Oh, I guess something’s going to be bigger than before when it shows up later.” [Keith, Sylvia, and Jack laugh]
Keith: I cannot wait until—
Sylvia: Who can say?
Keith: And when we— and if something shows up and is bigger than before? Just wait until it’s even bigger than that. 
Jack: [laughs] I'm very excited. Uh, should we jump into the recap? Should we do the show?
Summary [0:05:06]
Keith: We should, yeah. So, we've got, uh, Kurapika’s undercover, and the Phantom Troupe is in town, so naturally, it’s time to scam auctiongoers to that two kids can buy the world’s most expensive video game.
Dre: Uh huh.
Jack: Of course.
Keith: After meeting up with Leorio and buying some normal cell phones. [Sylvia and Keith laugh]
Dre: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. [Jack laughs] Please tell me we're gonna talk more about these cell phones.
Keith: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. We'll talk—
Dre: Okay, all right.
Sylvia: Yeah, we're just doing the recap.
Keith: We'll talk about the cell phones. Before a quick detour to learn that the biblical Satan is maybe real, [Jack laughs] we're checking in on everyone. The Troupe is in their spooky house. Neon is throwing a fit about not really being allowed to go to the auction proper, and the bodyguards are getting ready for the auction. The auction is getting underway and running smoothly for about zero seconds [Jack chuckles] as our on screen death count quadruples. This is what happens when you hire the Phantom Troupe to emcee your event. [Sylvia laughs] After some robbing specifics that we'll get into later, the chase is on, then quickly off, as I think the Troupe decide it’s not worth having people follow them, so they stop to kill all of the people following them.
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: That’s what happens. This is two episodes.
Keith: Two episodes.
Jack: You know, when Mr. Wing is on screen, Hunter × Hunter spends two episodes repeatedly describing metaphysics to you. [Sylvia laughs] When Kurapika and Leorio are on screen— more specifically, when the team of 13 murderers, the Phantom Troupe, [Keith: Yeah.] is on screen, I feel like the dial on the running machine has been set way too high, and everybody has to just scramble to catch up to their shenanigans, 'cause the real driver of these two episodes are the Phantom Troupe, primarily this kind of, like, triad of Uvogin, who— Uvogin[oo-voh-geen]? Uvogin[oo-voh-jeen]?
Keith: Uvogin[oo-voh-geen].
Sylvia: Uvogin[oo-voh-geen]. Yeah.
Jack: Sorry, you… [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Uvogin, hard G.
Jack: Uvogin.
Keith: Yeah, Uvogin. His friends call him Uvo.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Uvo. Yes. 
Sylvia: We'll probably fall into just calling him Uvo.
Jack: We'll get into Uvo later, but yeah, most of the Phantom Troupe action in these episodes is Uvo, the sort of barbarian murderer.
Keith: Right. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: Feitan—
Keith: The human mountain.
Jack: The human mountain.
Sylvia: Barbarian type— barbarian as an adjective.
Jack: Yes.
Sylvia: He’s not murdering barbarians. [cross] He is a barbarian who murders.
Jack: [cross] No, but he would.
Sylvia: He would! He’s— listen, he’s so good at murdering, he’s definitely murdered a barbarian or two.
Jack: Oh, yeah.
Sylvia: Just wanted to be clear about his profession.
Jack: Yes, yes. Feitan, the frightening child, [Sylvia laughs] who seems to be warming up to give Killua a run for his money, in terms of sort of pint-sized villainy. And then Franklin, a Frankenstein who reveals himself to be full of bullets, question mark, question mark, question mark?
Keith: Mm. [Dre laughs]
Episode 42 [0:07:53]
Jack: And these three Phantom Troupe members are really just the driving force behind most of the action in these episodes, but before they arrive, yeah, I think the place to begin is Gon and Killua and a little conversation that they have as they arrive [Keith: Yeah.] in Yorknew City and…
Keith: Oh, and I've got a button for that too.
Jack: Oh, I'm so— ooh. Is this a pre-Leorio button?
Keith: Yes.
Jack: Okay. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: It’s, like, the first, the opening scene. This is a— so, we don't have any brand new music this episode, but since the buttons are new, I got a few important soundtrack songs that we've probably talked about all of them before but that I thought would be nice to press buttons for, because pressing the buttons is fun, and this happens to be one of my favorite songs. It’s called “Voyage”, so it’s the scene that you're talking about, Jack. [clip of “Voyage” plays briefly] Oh, that’s really loud. [“Voyage” begins again] [Sylvia laughs] Nope, that’s still too loud. Oh, does that slider not do what I think it does? [Sylvia laughs] How loud was that for you?
Sylvia: Uh…
Jack: That wasn't terribly loud, but it was fairly loud.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: I could handle it, but, you know. [Dre laughs]
Keith: Okay. How’s that now? [clip of “Voyage” begins, quieter] How’s that?
Jack: Perfect.
Sylvia: Yeah, this is good. We can talk over this volume.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, I adore this song. I feel like it’s gonna be one of the songs that’s used, [music ends] like, to the end of the show, right? And from the beginning kind of too.
Keith: It totally is. From the beginning, into the end.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: That song gets used all the time. I think it’s kind of— it’s such an on-the-nose emotional song that it— it almost— it makes me want to cry, but I—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: I think it’s kind of a cheap cry.
Sylvia: You know what?
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: I'll take it, though. Like, it—
Keith: I do love— but I love it. I think it’s so good. It’s very sweeping and fun.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And the other times that this is happening is, like, Gon is experiencing a brand new world full of wonder and magic, but this time weirdly is, uh, he’s still full of wonder and magic, but it’s mostly Killua explaining to him how many trillions of jenny gets spent at the auction every year. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: Yeah. 'Cause they rock up at this…
Sylvia: Yeah, it is a little…
Jack: This marketplace. Oh, sorry, go ahead, Sylvi.
Sylvia: I was just gonna say it’s a little bit like, uh, time to learn the wonders of capitalism, young man. [laughs] 
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It truly is!
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. So, they're at this outdoor market, and at first, Gon is like, “Is this the auction?” and Killua is like, [scoffs].
Keith: Not even close, bud.
Jack: Not even close. This is, like, a village market, essentially.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: People are— or a flea market. People are selling all sorts of cool treasures. We get a lot of really neat crowd shots, detail shots.
Keith: It’s kind of a place set up to scam people like [Jack: Exactly.] Gon who would go, “Is this the auction?”
Dre: Uh huh. Yep.
Jack: Yeah. Gon is so excited about this marketplace, and Killua sees it for what it is, which is transparently a method for, like, greed and gain, you know, exploitation of an auction going public. And on the one hand, this is Killua just being, like, you know, I'm smarter than everyone and I can see the dark heart in everything.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: But I think this exact sort of split is the Gon and Killua relationship, right? It’s Gon looking with a kind of wide-eyed joyful wonder at something and Killua saying, “[scoffs] This is kind of all a bit shit, really. [Keith laughs] It kind of sucks to be here.”
Keith: But he— it is funny, 'cause he says— he is saying, “Oh, it’s all shit,” but he also says that— oh, no no no, sorry. This is about the actual auction. He says, “Something that sells for 10,000 today could sell for hundreds of millions tomorrow. Bam, instant fortune. It’s where dreams come true.”
Jack: Yes. Yes.
Keith: It’s very funny. It’s very weird.
Jack: Well, and I think that it kind of foreshadows the thing that happens next, which is after he finds that Gon doesn't have a telephone, we get this great shot of Killua’s phone that looks like a Fisher Price phone. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Jack: It’s great, and he realizes that Gon doesn't have one, and they get midway through being scammed into buying a phone, when, who should show up?
Dre: Geek Squad member Leorio is here. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: He’s back!
Sylvia: Leorio’s been reading so many blogs about which phone to get. 
[clip of “All I Need is MONEY!” begins very quietly]
Jack: Oh.
Sylvia: He’s an informed consumer.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It’s his— [laughs] By god, it’s Leorio’s music. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: Fuck yeah. He’s walking. He’s talking.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: You could actually stand to turn it up a bit now, Keith.
Keith: Okay. Yeah, that one might have just been really loud. That was the last one I had that I think I maybe… 
[clip of “All I Need is MONEY!” begins]
Jack: God.
Sylvia: It’s so— I love this one so much.
Keith: We get two Leorio themes. I don't know if anyone noticed.
Sylvia: He deserves it. I've missed him so much. I didn't realize it.
Keith: This is such a great theme.
Jack: Yeah. 
[song trails off]
Keith: It’s called “All I Need is MONEY!” Money in all caps. [Dre and Sylvia laugh] That’s the title of that song.
Dre: Money money money money money money.
Sylvia: We've definitely talked about that name before.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I think we did it in the backstory for Leorio episode.
Keith: The other Leorio, like, the theme variation is called "Dr. Warm-Hearted Miser". [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: How does that go? Have we heard this yet?
[clip of "Dr. Warm-Hearted Miser" begins]
Jack: [chuckles] Okay, cool. This one’s, like, a bit slinky.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: It’s the slinkier version of it. This is when he’s, like, pitching scams is this one.
[music ends]
Dre: Oh.
Keith: And then there’s a third one. It’s not really a variation. It sounds similar. I don't have the button for it, but it gets used every time Tonpa is thinking about, like, doing something deceitful. [Dre laughs] It plays then, and it plays a few other times, and that one is called “I Ain't Your Grandpa”, and it’s sort of similar. [Sylvia laughs] They play it during the arm wrestling. 
Dre: I ain't your grandpa.
Jack: Who says “I ain't your grandpa”? Is that Leorio or Tonpa?
Keith: I don't know.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s actually genuinely hard to tell. What I like about that second one is you can tell that Leorio is always whispering and has one finger up and has that look on his face [Jack: Yes.] where he thinks he’s very smart whenever it plays. [Dre laughs]
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s like, ah, yes, immediate mental image.
Jack: Leorio helps them get a good phone [Keith: Yeah.] from the one that the guy is scamming. This phone is called— [laughs quietly] is called the Beetle 07. 
Dre: About to say, it’s the fucking Beetleborgs communicator. 
Keith: Yeah. It is.
Jack: It looks so good.
Sylvia: I want this phone.
Keith: This phone— people might not know, because there have been technology things that are in the show because it’s been updated slightly from the late ‘90s to the early 2010s. The beetle phone is in the manga.
Jack: It’s so good.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Now, this is one of the rare moments where I am going to ask for and be good with hearing spoilers. From the cast, not from…not from you on Twitter. Are we gonna see Gon’s beetle phone again?
Keith: Yes.
Sylvia: Yes.
Jack: Great! 
Dre: Okay. I didn't remember. I'm glad you all did.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. It was something that I thought, last time I rewatched the whole series. I was like, “Oh yeah, does the beetle phone ever show up again?” and I made notes several times of it showing back up, because I couldn't remember, but it does, yeah.
Jack: That’s a relief. It’s too good, especially ‘cause we haven't seen it open yet. We just see it in this little box.
Keith: Oh, yeah.
Jack: It’s so good looking.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Dre. Dre has posted a Beetleborg in the chat.
Sylvia: I loved Beetle— Beetleborgs was my shit back in the day.
Dre: Yeah, they're great.
Jack: What is—
Keith: Loved Beetleborgs.
Sylvia: We don't need to get on it, but…
Jack: No, we do, 'cause what is Beetleborgs?
Dre: Oh, Jack.
Sylvia: BeetleBorgs is a… [Jack laughs] You're familiar with Power Rangers [Jack: Of course.] and Super Sentai as a concept?
Jack: Not Super Sentai, but I am familiar with Power Rangers.
Sylvia: Well, it’s like a— they're similar things, basically.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s, you know, transforming into sort of armored superheroes type thing, you know?
Jack: Okay. I like it when that happens.
Sylvia: Kamen Rider also falls under this.
Jack: Oh, and I know Kamen Rider, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah. Ooh, if we ever do bonuses, a tokusatsu show could be fun.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: But we've got other things. Anyway. Anyway. Beetleborgs is—
Keith: We do do bonuses.
Sylvia: Well, I meant if we do more down the line. I'm trying so hard to get through [cross] what Beetleborgs is.
Keith: [cross] Sorry, sorry. No, no, no, no. [Jack laughs quietly]
Sylvia: I believe it has something to do with, like, a magical comic book that they find? That…
Keith: It’s a magical comic book about the Beetleborgs.
Sylvia: About the Beetleborgs, yeah.
Keith: And then the Beetleborgs show up when they go to a haunted house. They’re like, “We're real, and we're, like—” Oh, no, no, no. They meet a genie in a haunted house who grants them a wish, and they wish to be the real Beetleborgs?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Like, from the comic books?
Jack: Is this the genie, Dre, that I'm seeing here, this next image?
Sylvia: Oh, no— [laughs quietly] 
Keith: I believe…
Sylvia: I think so? Maybe? 
Dre: I think so.
Keith: I believe it is, yeah. Yeah.
Dre: I think that’s Flabber. Flabber the genie.
Sylvia: Yeah, Flabber, who is, as you would expect, a Jay Leno bit, basically.
Jack: Oh, sure. Oh, right.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I'm pretty sure he had Jay Leno voice.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Who lives with the dark universe of universal monsters such as the wolfman and a dracula and a mummy, and I'm not joking. [laughs quietly] 
Jack: Wait, Jay Leno, or the…?
Sylvia: Jay Leno does in an old mansion. Their sort of like— their Zordon and Alpha is the haunted house.
Jack: Okay.
Keith: No, not real Jay Leno. Not real Jay Leno, this fake…
Sylvia: No, Flabber.
Dre: Yeah, Flabber.
Keith: Right, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Okay. As far as— I don't know how—
Sylvia: The suits are very cool.
Jack: Where real Jay Leno lives. I don't know.
Keith: Yeah, real Jay Leno has to live in a haunted mansion, because he never spends any of his Tonight Show money.
Jack: Right, right, right. 
Yes.
Dre: Well, he spends it all on cars, so there’s none left, and he has to—
Sylvia: Look at this fit.
Keith: [laughs quietly] No, this is a famous thing that Jay Leno has said several times, where he’s like, “I don't spend any of that money. That money just goes into my savings. I'm still living off of my entertainment money from [Jack: Huh.] before I got the show.”
Dre: Mm.
Jack: [cross] Do we like—
Keith: [cross] It’s just some weird thing that he said 15 years ago that I don't think anybody believes.
Jack: Do we like the Beetleborgs? Are they goodies?
Sylvia: I like the Beetleborgs, and yes, they are goodies.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: They are goodies, yeah.
Jack: Okay. They’re not, like…
Sylvia: They're, like, three teenage— or, like, 13-year-olds, I think.
Dre: They're, like, preteens, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: They're very young, yeah. But yeah, the Beetleborgs is is, like, what if Power Rangers was worse but way funnier [Sylvia: Yeah.] and slightly cooler if you really like bugs.
Jack: Speaking of way funnier, to get us back on track…
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yes, thank you.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Leorio arrives, and the tone of the show doesn't so much change. The show’s always had, you know, a capacity for, like, lightness and humor, even when Leorio’s not on screen. [Dre laughs] But we get, like, four back-to-back [Sylvia laughs] laugh lines that hit really well [Keith: Yeah.] on Leorio’s arrival. And something about him showing up and me just, like, starting to laugh out loud at the show is fantastic. His first great joke is after he buys the phone. We sort of cut away as he’s beginning to haggle, and then as they're walking down the street— 
Sylvia: Oh, I love this.
Jack: Gon or Killua just says, “I've never seen anyone get applause for buying a cell phone before.” [Sylvia and Dre laugh]
Keith: He gets them, like, an 80% discount from haggling.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, and then— and people are clapping, and there is something— it reminds me very much of the line where Leorio in Trick Tower was like, he won a cruise by playing rock paper scissors in a mall?
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Jack: Do you remember that?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah. He won a luxury cruise by winning a rock paper scissors tournament. 
Jack: In a mall. And I feel like that is the same Leorio as the one who is able to get applause for buying a cell phone, [laughs quietly] which is…
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: That’s really good. The second great Leorio joke is they're sort of catching up, they're learning about what went down, and…
Keith: It’s a really cute scene, the cutaway to, like, Leorio reacting to all of their Heavens Arena stuff.
Jack: Yeah, it’s really nice. This is the value in splitting your protagonists up, right? Because you do get moments like this, where they get to come back together.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: And Killua says, “Did you learn Nen?” [Dre laughs] Or maybe Gon says, “Did you learn Nen?”
Sylvia: Uh…
Jack: And Leorio leans forward and says, “You better believe I did,” [quiet laughter] and then describes Ten, the first step, one of the first exercises to learning Nen.
Sylvia: I need to read how I wrote this down, which is he’s so proud of himself and then he gets Are You Smarter Than a Fifth Gradered, [Keith laughs] like, a 12-year-old just immediately shows him up by being like, “Well, yeah, that’s Ten. Have you heard about all this other stuff?”
Jack: It’s so funny.
Sylvia: I also love, in this screenshot you posted, Keith, just to rewind to the haggling, [Keith: Yeah.] Killua’s extreme “oh, my mom embarrassed me at the mall” face.
Dre: Oh my god, yes.
Sylvia: It’s so funny.
Keith: By the way, look at the shop owner in the background. 
Jack: Oh, he’s just like… [Sylvia laughs] Okay, so…
Keith: In pain. In emotional pain.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Posing like he just lost a very intense Yugioh battle. [Dre laughs]
Jack: What Keith has posted is this tiny cutaway moment, and I love this frame. I sort of— so, someone says, “I’d never seen anyone get applause for buying a cell phone before,” and we get this little tiny cutaway to people clapping, and it’s a really funny shot. I wonder if the joke would have worked better had they— you know, had we not seen the cutaway. I feel like the image in my head was almost better than not seeing it, but it turns out that what we are seeing is really funny.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Leorio is whistling. He’s got a little music note coming out of his mouth, and then, yeah, like—
Keith: He’s Captain Morganing also.
Jack: Yes. [Sylvia and Jack laugh] And Gon and Killua are standing next to each other, holding up the phones in bags, as though they are having to present it to the crowd.
Keith: Yeah. Both embarrassed in slightly different ways.
Jack: It’s great. It’s really good. And yeah, when Killua learns that Leorio only learned the first step of Nen and believes that’s the extent of it, he says, “That’s pretty much what I expected,” which is… [Keith and Jack laugh]
Keith: Brutal.
Jack: Which is really good. I feel like you asked at some point whether or not I thought that Leorio had learned Nen, and I think my answer was, “Of course he has, because the story needs to kind of move that way.”
Keith: Uh huh.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: But him only learning step one is the funniest possible way to do it.
Keith: I would like to— and I'm worried about, like, uh, like a friendly groundhog that you just want to take a closer look at, but it doesn't know the difference between you and a predator, so any movement scares it away. I'm worried about saying this next thing, but I'm gonna say it anyway, which is that it’s very funny how far we've come just in a few episodes about Nen, Jack, your attitude towards it [Jack laughs] and about learning about Nen. They've taken the umpteenth time to reset and remind you the different parts of Nen. They go, like, you know, he’s like, “That’s Ten. That’s just the first part of Nen,” and they just have— it’s a quick, like, you know, 20 second reminder of what Nen is and what’s going on and what you gotta know, and this time, it’s fun, and we're having a good time with it, [Jack laughs] and we're not bored, and we're not annoyed about it.
Jack: Well, it’s because it’s— yeah. And look, I'm not owned. [Keith and Sylvia laugh]
Keith: No, it’s fine! It’s fine, because I said— I knew, and I said it in one of the very first things in the very first Heavens Arena episode that we did. I was like, “I found this boring the first time I watched it. Don't worry about it. It’s great. Looking back, it’ll be fun.” And…
Jack: There was a moment at the end of this group of two episodes, in one of the final scenes, that, for me, feels like I'm being rewarded for my patience with Nen.
Keith: Mm.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: That is so delightful. It involves some little freaks.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And we'll get there, but I feel like in moments like—
Keith: Maybe the biggest freak we've seen so far, question mark?
Jack: [laughs quietly] I think so. I was delighted when these guys showed up. If you haven't been watching along, and you're— which is fine. You know, I feel like we try and make this show that it’s comprehensible for you if you're not watching along. You might be listening to us now and thinking, “Surely they can't be getting more freaks.” Buddy, you have no idea.
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: Start a clock.
Keith: We just, in the very last episode, we got a slew of freaks.
Sylvia: Honestly? Like, barely at the tip of the iceberg of freaks.
Keith: Yes, we're scratching the surface of freaks. [laughs quietly] 
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: You straight up do not know how many freaks you will find within Hunter × Hunter’s pages and episodes.
Keith: Now that I've got these screencaps open, because I've posted them, we also already got a new Killua outfit.
Jack: Oh, we have. Yes, we have.
Sylvia: Let’s fucking go.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: He’s wearing a pink shirt. He's wearing a— this is absolutely Killua rich kid garb.
Keith: Yes, yeah.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: He’s wearing a pink shirt.
Dre: This is Carlton Banks Killua.
Sylvia: Oh my god. [laughs quietly] 
Jack: He's got, like, a little custom necklace, right? A little charm.
Keith: Yeah, he’s got a little custom gold necklace. He’s got a— it’s like a dress shirt, like a kind of rumpled dress shirt under a loose pink t-shirt. He’s also got cuffed jean shorts on.
Jack: Okay. I'm gonna do a bit of— not exactly CinemaSins, but I have a…
Sylvia: You're gonna ding ‘em, though. You're about ding ‘em.
Jack: No, I'm not gonna— I am— 
Dre: Uh oh.
Jack: No, I'm not really gonna ding ‘em. I'm gonna say…'cause the question I'm about to ask has no bearing on the plot.
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: It’s not interesting to think about outside of, you know, like, talking with your friends, but luckily that’s what we're doing. Where does Killua get all his clothes from? Does he pack a bunch of clothes when he leaves the Zoldyck Estate?
Keith: The artists. The artists just draw it right on him. [Sylvia and Jack laugh]
Sylvia: Fuck off. [Keith laughs]
Jack: They just draw them right on him.
Keith: Just draw it right on him.
Jack: In fact, there’s not— he’s nothing before they start drawing the clothes.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: That’s when Killua shows up.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: No, 'cause he didn't leave the Zoldyck mansion with a suitcase. Is he just buying clothes with Silva’s credit card at all times?
Sylvia: I would believe it.
Dre: I love that.
Keith: I would believe that, yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: He knows he can't buy, for example, Greed Island with the credit card, but he knows that, for his whole life, Silva has been seeing his family buy fancy clothes on his credit card, so he’s like, it’s, you know.
Keith: Oh, we missed the most important part of this outfit, which is that it’s all— it comes with a little bunny lollipop.
Jack: It does! [Keith laughs quietly]
Dre: Mm.
Jack: This little lollipop’s great. He has this little bunny lollipop for most of this episode.
Sylvia: This little shitter loves candy, [Dre: Mm-hmm.] and I think that’s fantastic about him!
Jack: Hey, I watched Home Alone 2: Trouble in New York over this Christmas.
Keith: Mm.
Dre: Okay.
Sylvia: Tell me more.
Jack: Uh, Killua has kind of Kevin the murderer energy, doesn't he? [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Uh, like, when he’s setting traps.
Sylvia: We Need to Talk About Kevin 2 as well. 
Jack: [laughs] When he’s setting traps. When he’s spending [Sylvia: Yeah] his parents’ money. When he is enjoying the fine things in life. He’s an old soul, you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: He’s also kind of the kid from Blank Check sometimes.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: I don't think I've seen Blank Check.
Sylvia: Don't.
Jack: Okay. What is Blank Check—?
Keith: Unless you, uh…unless you love, um…ah, I just saw him in a movie yesterday!
Dre: Why would you tell— 
Keith: Paul Giamatti. 
Dre: Why would you tell Jack not to watch Blank Check?
Keith: Oh, no, I'm thinking of Big Fat Liar. Paul Giamatti’s not in Blank Check.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Uh, Blank Check is just not a very good movie, I think.
Dre: No, it’s not. It’s probably not.
Sylvia: It’s about a child who gets a blank check. Uh, guy gives a kid a check to—
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Because he hits his bike with—
Keith: It’s about a seven-year-old boy hitting on an adult FBI agent is what Blank Check is about.
Sylvia: That is the main thing, yeah.
Jack: Oh god.
Dre: Yeah, that’s also what it is. And she kind of goes along with it.
Keith: She kind of goes along with it.
Sylvia: I think Tone Loc is trying to kill the child.
Jack: Okay. 'Cause when you said this is a movie about a kid being given a blank check and spending a lot of money, I was like, this is just a great premise, you know? 
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Unfortunately.
Jack: It’s not a complicated movie to make. Why would you—
Sylvia: No.
Jack: How could you fuck it up? And then you told me immediately how they fucked it up.
Sylvia: He goes on a date with an adult woman.
Jack: Yep. There we go. That’s the way they fucked it up.
Keith: He gets a kiss from an adult woman.
Jack: Oh god.
Sylvia: [laughing] Yes, he does.
Jack: No, I'm not gonna see this. 
Sylvia: Sorry. [laughs] 
Jack: Okay, brief note. We get the name of the auction house. The auction house is called: Southernbees. 
Sylvia: I love it! I love that— 
Jack: I'm just—
Sylvia: We get so many good names for things in this episode.
Jack: Yeah. Now that I am saying it out loud, I'm realizing that this is a Sotheby’s joke.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yes, yeah.
Jack: But when I saw it written down in the subtitles, I just thought it was a really cool name for a thing. [Jack and Keith laugh] Southernbees. But now Leorio has arrived, the game plan kind of returns to: we need to make a bunch of cash. And they begin sort of scheming. We get a tiny little cutaway to learn that Milluki is having trouble making the game go, and so [Keith: Yeah.] he sets off out into the world, presumably— with the implication being that he is going to try and bid on the game himself, in exchange for killing 15 people in order to get a loan from his dad.
Keith: How much is that loan for?
Jack: 15 billion jenny.
Keith: 15 billion jenny.
Sylvia: They say you can't put a price on a life. You've never met a Zoldyck before. [Jack laughs]
Keith: ‘Cause he says— he’s got, like, 9 billion as it is, and he’s like, that’s barely enough to do the lowest bid, and it’ll be double this, probably. So then he gives himself some extra room, gets 15 billion. So, he’s going with 23 billion.
Dre: What if, every time Killua gets a new outfit, it is because offscreen he called his dad and was like, “Hey, I need a new fit. I'll go kill somebody for you.” [Jack sighs]
Sylvia: I don't think he— I think— sorry, I got too emot— I got too serious about Killua there.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Because I was about to say, “I think that’s funny, but I don't think it’s true to the character.” [Dre and Keith laugh]
Jack: It would be sad, right? We know the guy is trying to…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: But it is good to— [laughs] it is good to think about.
Keith: I do like that it gives us, like, some measuring stick for the economy that the Zoldycks are dealing in.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Keith: You know.
Jack: Yes.
Sylvia: Absolutely.
Jack: It also—
Dre: Explains how they have all that staff and that big-ass house.
Jack: Yeah. It does make me wonder. Silva must be the one that gets all the murder money, right? It…’cause otherwise, Milluki could take on his own clients, right? 
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Milluki could just go to however Zoldyck targets are set, pick up a bunch of clients, get the payout. But the fact that—
Keith: I don't know how they split the work between Zeno and Silva. Like, I wouldn't— this is just— taking the supposition seriously, I wouldn't say definitely Silva’s dad has no say in the business.
[0:30:16]
Jack: Yes.
Keith: But it’s—
Jack: I think so. It’s tough to say.
Keith: But definitely it’s true of Milluki. Milluki has to ask for money.
Jack: We notably, despite, you know, talking about them every episode, we haven't actually seen a lot of Zoldyck assassins in action, right? 
Sylvia: No.
Jack: We've seen Illumi trying to disrupt the [Keith: Yeah.] Hunter Exam, and we've seen…that’s it, right? We've met them on their home turf, but we haven't really seen—
Keith: What do you think it would look like if we got some Zoldyck assassin in action?
Jack: Uh, brutal, uh, you know. It wouldn't be good, right? They’re…
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I don't know how many of them are actual— they're an assassin family, right? 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Which makes me think it’s probably Silva works in the field. Maybe Zeno works in the field. What’s the mother called? Kikyo.
Keith: Yeah, Kikyo.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s Kikyo.
Jack: ‘Cause it can't just be that the kids are the only ones who go out doing the killing. It’s Illumi, Killua, and maybe the mom and dad. I don't know. Not good.
Keith: Kalluto.
Jack: Uh, possibly. Maybe too little. Maybe Kalluto is learning.
Keith: [feigning ignorance] Yeah, maybe too little.
Sylvia: Maybe.
Jack: Like, goes…goes on a journey. But we know that this show makes kids do fucking horrible things to each other constantly.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Something I do— that, you know, we'll get to later, is we do see a Zoldyck technique in these episodes.
Keith: We do.
Jack: We absolutely do.
Keith: I didn't notice that, but I saw it on your thing [Sylvia: Yeah.] in the doc, Sylvi.
Jack: Yeah, the rhythm step or something appears, right?
Dre: Oh.
Keith: Well, we see Killua’s hand thing.
Jack: Yes, we do.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Jack: We'll get to it. That’s gonna—
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: We'll get to it.
Jack: The Phantom Troupe have not yet appeared in this episode of Media Club Plus.
Sylvia: Uh huh, uh huh.
Jack: And when they do, the train is going to go crashing off the rails.
Keith: But right before the Milluki thing, we also get— we get another play. Like Southernbees, we get, uh, Uoogle?
Jack: Oh, yes. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Uoogre, I thought it was?
Jack: Uoogre, the Google search engine. Oh, before we move off the Zoldyck assassins, and to your point, Dre, about what if the way Killua is getting all these great fits is just taking on clients and murdering people, it is actually notable that Killua has a way of making a lot of money very quickly, and the thing that they are trying to do right now is make a lot of money very quickly.
Dre: Oh. I didn't even think about that, Jack, but you're totally right.
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Jack: And I think it is very notable, right, that he is not doing that. we know that the Zoldyck assassins are not just, you know, your regular hitpeople. They are getting top money for the stuff they do, and I am sure that Killua could go back to Silva and say, you know, “Give me a job. I need to go buy Greed Island,” but he doesn't, 'cause he wants to do this the proper way. That is to say, [Sylvia: Yeah.] scamming punters into a “beat a child at arm wrestling” game. [Dre laughs]
Keith: I love this, because— for us, not just— I mean, I love it in general, but for this show, we have made so much hay over people not understanding how strong these strong children are.
Sylvia: [laughs] Yeah.
Keith: Despite numerous context clues. They have made a literal game. They have gamified other people’s inability to process this information.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: [laughs] Yes, 'cause this—
Keith: In universe. This is an in-universe reference.
Jack: This game works exactly the way you think it does, right? [Keith laughs] It goes like this: step right up. Arm wrestle the child in exchange for— okay, so, first we have a bit of business about the different kinds of auctions. This is all bullshit. [Keith laughs quietly] Leorio describes— so, they go on the Wikipedia page for auctions and learn about different kinds of auctions, including one called a conditional auction, where you are— they say you are bidding with a thing that is not money. You know, so when this was described, the implication, as I understood it, was sort of, like, this is an auction for, you know, barter or whatever. Say, for example—
Keith: Right, the goods and services auction.
Jack: Yes. I want this gem. I am prepared to offer you use of my plow for, you know, six days or whatever. That’s how I understood this. The way Leorio has understood this to be is essentially just, like, a game of chance or betting. Leorio has confused a conditional auction for betting, so he has [Dre: Mm-hmm.] bought a diamond with a certificate of authenticity, or forged one. My suspicion is that they put some of their money down, 'cause they knew they were about to make a massive amount of money. And you have to pay a 10,000 jenny entrance fee, and then you arm wrestle Gon, and he beats you [Sylvia: Yep.] every single time while sort of pretending to strain and have a difficult time. Gon is sweating, and people are like, “Oh, that’s 'cause he’s straining so hard,” but it’s actually because he’s brought out in a cold sweat at the thought of scamming all these people.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah, he’s upset about scamming. That was a really funny joke. People in the audience are like, “He’s probably getting tired! We should try and beat him now!” No. He’s not getting tired. He’s getting bored and nervous about lying.
Jack: However, Killua often, as usual, acting as the, uh, raining on the parade, notices to himself that they will need to arm wrestle 800,000— wait. [Dre laughs] 889,999 people [Keith: Mm-hmm.] in order to get the opening bid for Greed Island.
Keith: [laughs] Well, there’s something to be said for just getting the cash to fund your next scam. Sort of, you know, instead of…you know, you multiply by two and then two and then two and then two, and then, instead, you're like, well, now we can multiply by eight instead of two.
Jack: That’s true. Yes, that is true. I do feel very much like it is like that thing that people say about how, like, the difference between a million and a billion, and, you know, you could count to a million in X amount of time, but to count to a billion it would take 31 years or something. This is Killua learning this about how many people he needs to arm wrestle.
Keith: Yeah. And I think that Gon would be done by then. Just bored [Jack: Yeah.] if not tired.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah. Uh, probably also tired. I think— he’s very powerful, but I don't think that he could do that, could he?
Keith: I don't know. Hey, we get our first Phantom Troupe appearance. Oh! Well, we get, even before then, is a screenshot!
Jack: It is!
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: This is the screenshot with the “I'm sorry, but I don't know that man” bit. 
Keith: [laughs quietly] Yeah.
Jack: Where in our Hunter × Hunter screenshot stream, you showed me this game. I think I pretty correctly guessed that this was going to be a scam the, you know, scam people by thinking that they can't beat the small child scene. However, I lose all my points by not correctly identifying one of the four main cast of the show. [Sylvia and Keith laugh]
Keith: Yeah, we definitely were like, “Is there anyone else in here? What about this guy?” You're like, “That’s normal businessman.”
Jack: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I thought he was a businessman who had come by to watch the game, and he was shocked?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Jack: I would like to jump back a little, because we…
Keith: Oh, sure.
Jack: Before this scamming scene, we get a little bit more information about the auction, [Dre laughs quietly] and there is a lot of business about how the auction works. Southernbees is this nice normal auction, but at the same time, there is an underground auction, where the mafia come. Wait, is there a good auction at all, or is it all just the underground auction?
Keith: It’s all just the underground auction.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: It’s just—
Dre: At least right now.
Jack: Well, this auction goes to shit immediately.
Keith: Well, yes, sorry. It’s all the mafia auction. The whole thing is the mafia auction, and then there’s, like, the shady part of the mafia auction. But yes, the whole thing goes to shit immediately.
Jack: Okay, wow. I had thought that this was just sort of, like, a side gig that the mafia run during the real auction, but no. Okay. So, the mafia auction works on, frankly, a stupid system. It operates on a weird sort of trust system. No weapons are allowed inside the auction house, but also no security cameras are allowed, you know, either. The, um…what’s the guy called? He’s named like a mouthwash. Dalzollene?
Sylvia: Yeah, Dalzollene.
Dre: Jesus.
Keith: [laughs quietly] Yes, it’s Dalzollene. Yes.
Dre: “Named like a mouthwash” is a wild pull. [Jack, Dre, and Keith laugh]
Keith: And it works.
Jack: The mouthwash—
Sylvia: Put that one on that rare insults account.
Dre: Yeah. [laughs] 
Keith: It’s actually— there’s two of them. Two of them are named like mouthwashes, because there’s also Linssen.
Jack: Oh, Linssen and Dalzollene. Lovely.
Sylvia: You use them together for max effectiveness.
Jack: Yeah, yeah. [laughs] Yeah.
Keith: It’s two— yeah, the two step process, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Dalzollene says, you know, you've gotta check your grudges at the door. There is this real— and we're getting all these shots of the mafia here. There’s a real sort of sense— mistaken criminal naivety here, right? Where it’s like, we are the respectable mafia. We all dress in suits. We look out for ourselves. It’s just a bunch of very normal-looking men [Keith: Mm-hmm.] in shady sort of suits, fancy suits.
Keith: No freaks at all.
Jack: No freaks at all, and I think that, you know, on the one hand, we make a lot of hay about the value of freaks on this show, but I do think there is something to be said about the way this criminal organization just cannot conceive of the kind of danger and affect that is out there waiting for them in the world.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Whether it is through the gonzo heroics of the Hunter organization or through the just, like, pantomime bizarro murder of the Phantom Troupe. This is, like, very much the old guard of criminals or, like, a particular kind of criminals. You know, you know—
Keith: Well, there’s— there is something kind of interesting about this to me, which is— and I'll just say outright: this is not something that gets touched on in the anime, like, at least on a surface level, but the one thing really that we know about this mafia is that it’s born out of the same place that the Phantom Troupe is born out of.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah. Meteor City, right?
Keith: Yeah, Meteor City.
Jack: Yeah, Meteor City? Yeah, the vibe that I get from these guys are very much the people who are like, “I just love watching fucked up twisted movies like…” and then a long pause, and then they say, like, Donnie Darko [Keith and Sylvia laugh] or Christopher Nolan’s Memento or something.
Dre: You guys seen Boondock Saints? 
Jack: [laughs] Yeah.
Dre: Now that’s cinema with something to say.
Sylvia: Holy fuck.
Jack: Exactly. Meanwhile, the Hunters and the Phantom Troupe are out here watching, like, a three and a half minute long full-length movie about, you know, someone machine gunning a crowd or whatever. You know, there’s some real bullshit out in this world, and the mafia are not prepared for it whatsoever, especially because it speaks to the mafia’s unpreparedness about Nen, you know? They say, “Leave your weapons at the door.” Nen users do not need weapons, [Keith: Right.] as far as we can tell.
Sylvia: The way this whole auction is run is just funny to me. The 5% kickback to the mafia community is…
Jack: [laughs] They keep saying “the mafia community.”
Sylvia: They say it so much, and it’s so funny.
Keith: It’s really funny. 
Sylvia: I, like…
Keith: Well, I think that they explain that pretty well. I think that totally makes sense to me.
Sylvia: I mean, they explain it better as the episode goes on. I think when the Ten Dons are more established as a thing, it makes a bit more sense.
Keith: Oh, sure.
Sylvia: I just think the wording of it is funny.
Keith: Yeah. So, the…
Sylvia: ‘Cause it sounds like when Budweiser talks about, “We're reaching out to the LGBT community.” [Keith and Jack laugh] We're reaching out to the mafia community.
Keith: Send us the—
Dre: The alphabet mafia, Sylvi. You figured it out.
Jack: Oh!
Sylvia: Shit!
Keith: It’s Tocino—
Sylvia: That’s why there’s ten of them, for every letter. [Dre and Sylvia laugh]
Keith: It’s Tocino who originally explains it to Baise and, like, why are they…like, why are they so confident. And it is—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: There is, like, a horrible overconfidence problem, as we'll see in just a minute, but, you know, Baise is like, “Why are they— what is going on? Why are they allowed to just have the auction? Why isn't anybody scared?” And Tocino’s basically like, this is every family’s opportunity to, like, make themselves seem awesome by spending a ton of money at the auction, because in addition to paying whoever the person is that’s selling the thing, the mafia essentially operates as an auction house, where they're taking a 5% commission on everything, so they're like, yeah, people overpay on purpose to funnel more money into, like, the mafia community.
Jack: Yes.
Sylvia: To, like, increase their status, right?
Keith: Right, yeah. Because it goes to the dons, basically.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: It goes to, like, the main organization and can get you noticed and then I think he explains that some families have, like, gone bankrupt doing this.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Trying to make themselves look good.
Jack: Yeah. Nightmare.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: But also so sort of flatly stupid, in a way that [Sylvia laughs] the Phantom Troupe or the Hunters are expressively stupid.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Meanwhile, I think we are sort of seeing the Phantom Troupe, you know…I don't know if they've actually showed up yet in their cool…nope, they have not.
Keith: We kind of skipped— we skipped around a little bit, because we ended [Dre: Mm-hmm.] right before Shizuku appears at the arm wrestling.
Jack: Yes. This is the first appearance of the Phantom Troupe, actually.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Because, suddenly, out of the crowd at the arm wrestling comes Shizuku, the new Phantom Troupe member alongside Hisoka. She is a short woman in glasses wearing a cross, a gold cross around her neck. We don't know what her Nen power is at this point, but we'll learn.
Keith: Oh, we will.
Jack: [laughs quietly] And she, uh…she arm wrestles Gon, and Gon learns very quickly that this is a Nen user, and he has to put his full effort into it, and he beats her, but both people come out of this interaction going, “Ooh, that was interesting. [Keith: Yeah.] What happened there?” And in fact, Shizuku goes back and reveals to Feitan and Franklin that she is left handed and she was using her right arm.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I love the— I love the little bit of character that we get from Shizuku this episode, where she’s, like, kind of just a little, like, head in the clouds [Keith: Mm-hmm.] a lot of the time and was like, “Well, he put his right hand out, so I just put mine out on instinct.”
Keith: Yeah. And then when she realizes, “Oh, yeah, I used my weaker hand. Let me go back and try again.” [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah. Yeah. I really wanted that diamond.
Keith: And they're like, “No, we are not going to do that. Sorry, Shizuku.”
Sylvia: Specifically say, “We're thieves. When we want something, we steal it.”
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Or, like, “We want something, we take it.” Something along those lines.
Jack: And boy do they.
Sylvia: Hell yeah they do.
Jack: But yeah, it is— it’s always very fun when characters who are going to be sort of fated foes or friends meet each other ahead of time and don't realize.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And it’s such a great thing to, like, have them both be surprised that the other person wasn't a normal person.
Jack: Yeah. Does Gon know what the Phantom Troupe is? Has he heard— yes, yes.
Keith: Yes, yeah.
Jack: He heard Kurapika talk about it in Trick Tower.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. Okay, cool.
Keith: And I think that Kurapika explained about it during the plan to meet in Yorknew City, told them what Hisoka had told him.
Sylvia: Yes.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: That is correct.
Jack: And then, you know, having met Shizuku here, the Phantom Troupe makes their proper arrival in this episode, as they ascend in a black and white striped hot air balloon, as their—
Keith: Haunted hot air balloon.
[clip of "Dirge from Dark Side" begins]
Jack: As their choral theme plays. Keith— yeah, it’s so good.
Keith: Already on it. Already on it.
Sylvia: Ugh!
Keith: I love the haunted hot air balloon. It’s such a funny idea.
Sylvia: It’s so whimsical.
[music ends]
Jack: It is so whimsical, except the composing on this chorale that they have is so genuinely melancholy and sad that it does produce this bizarre affect, right? Where it’s like, look at all these freaks going up in the sky in their hot air balloon.
Keith: Yeah. [Dre laughs]
Jack: As, like, a genuinely unsettling sad piece of music plays. [laughs] And then we get a little montage, as—
Keith: And it’s fitting. This is the dirge. The Dirge from the Dark Side is what it’s called.
Jack: The Dirge from the Dark— it’s really good. This might be my favorite Phantom Troupe cue so far. As Hisoka, sitting at a window, you know, draws cards from his pack, draws a joker, looks around at the other members of the Phantom Troupe sort of, you know, getting themselves ready and then looks over at Chrollo, who is reading his book [Keith: Yeah.] and looks up, and then we get—
Keith: Staring at Chrollo, like, for a while.
Jack: We get this just hyper closeup on each of their eyes as they look at each other, a kind of—
Sylvia: Well, does Chrollo look up? I feel like it took a while for Chrollo to look up and that I might have even missed it when it happened.
Jack: Well, yeah. I can't tell if we get just the closeup on Chrollo’s eye as he’s reading [cross] or the closeup on Chrollo’s eye as he’s—
Sylvia: [cross] I think we do.
Keith: [cross] Yeah, my memory is Chrollo just reading.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Yeah, which I think it’s important to, like— I think the fact that Chrollo is not paying attention to Hisoka while Hisoka is, like, staring very intently at him is just, like, a worthwhile thing to mention. Also, like, I know that— I know there’s some shippers out there who are like, “Yeah, that was something, huh?” and I just need to throw them a bone.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: But I also— Hisoka’s always dominated the room whenever he’s been here before, right? And I think it’s, like, interesting when someone is barely paying attention to him, even though we know [Jack: Yes.] the threat that he poses and the, like…
Keith: Yeah. And it’s a whole room full of people who are, like, on Chrollo, don't care about Hisoka.
Sylvia: Yeah. Yeah.
Jack: It flattens Hisoka in a— or rather, so, we get these closeups of their eyes. Chrollo’s eyes, he’s looking at the book he’s reading, and it’s just this very— you know, it’s the eyes that we've seen before. Very placid, very, um…not quite unfocused. Very focused, but very plain. You know, [Keith: Yeah.] straightforward, emotionless.
Keith: Relaxed.
Jack: Relaxed.
Jack: And then Hisoka’s eye, and the animation on his eye is so good as, you know, he sort of squints, and his pupil moves, and it’s just that sort of, like, bubbling inchoate malice and potency of Hisoka. And usually when we've seen that in the past, it has sort of presented itself as frightening or as dangerous, but here, in this room full of Phantom Troupe members who are, yeah, like, Keith said, either focused on Chrollo or just focused on doing their own thing, it kind of makes Hisoka look like the little dog in the corner of the room in the cage who is just barking a lot, and all the other dogs are just like, “I don't— I’m not paying this any attention whatsoever.”
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Which is really interesting. Seeing that exact move of, like, watching the bubbling pot of Hisoka’s rage and malice boiling over and then suddenly seeing it in a room full of very professional chefs who are like, “I don't— it’s okay. [Sylvia laughs] It’s not a problem.”
Dre: It’s fine.
Sylvia: Don't worry about him. He does that sometimes.
Keith: It does, you know…I guess there's two directions to come from where it’s sort of like, you know, spending 40 episodes where Hisoka’s this monster, and then it’s like, oh, no, there’s a room of monsters, and they're not even impressed by the monster that we've been scared of this whole time. And then the flip side of it is it’s sort of…sort of levels out, like, a really unbalanced scale, where it’s like, okay, Hisoka’s the strongest horrible creature and is so scary, and then it’s like, okay, there’s like a world of these people. We've only seen villains in that world so far? [Sylvia laughs] We've only seen, like, Illumi and Hisoka and the Phantom Troupe. You know, but it is not— you know, Hisoka’s not, uh…you know, maybe Netero? Who knows. 
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: But Hisoka’s not, like, a lone tremendous force in the world anymore, which is, you know, it changes the balance on the scales a little bit, I think.
[0:51:11]
Jack: On a rooftop overlooking the Southernbees Auction House run by stupid mafiosos— [Sylvia laughs quietly] 
Dre: [cross] Fucking got ‘em.
Jack: [cross] Kurapika confides in Melody after she asks about kind of the heartbeat that she heard. You know, she describes hearing Kurapika’s heart beat a melody of wrath. Wrath. Why did I say it so weirdly? A melody of—
Sylvia: Eh, you know.
Jack: How do you say that word? “Roth”?
Keith: “Rath.”
Jack: Wrath. And then, also, a melody—
Keith: You can say “roth.” I get it.
Jack: Roth. And then a melody of boundless fury. And sort of, you know, is like, “What’s that about? You can confide in me,” and Kurapika opens up, you know, says that— adds a new wrinkle to it. He says that he is going to return the eyes of his fallen brethren to them, which this is the first time we've heard about this angle, right? It’s previously been a revenge quest, but it also [Dre: Mm-hmm.] seems to be about, you know, like, laying these people to rest properly.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. It’s always felt like an unspoken thing there, and like, I think having that, like, laid out adds, like, more of a dimension to Kurapika’s revenge, [Keith: Yeah.] even though, like, it’s already, like…you get it, but.
Keith: He’s mentioned wanting to get the eyes, but he hasn't said, like, what for.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Oh, I had been assuming, based on what he had said, that finding the eyes will bring him closer to the kinds of people who would hunt Kurta eyes, which is true, you know.
Keith: Yeah. I think that— I think he said both of those things.
Jack: And then we get our first great sort of zigzag of these two episodes. Hunter × Hunter is very good at every so often just throwing something into it that [Sylvia: Hmm?] makes me stop, and I have to imagine made you stop the first time you heard this, as we learn about Melody’s history. 
[clip of "A Field in Spring" plays] 
Jack: Yeah. Remember when you mentioned Melody’s beautiful flute part, Keith?
Keith: Yup.
Jack: Yup. [laughs quietly] 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Melody is—
Keith: Who maybe wrote that flute part? [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: Ooh, I don't know. Melody is seeking a certain piece of sheet music called the Sonata of Darkness, and that is like—
Keith: Right. Of course, she’s a Music Hunter.
Jack: Yeah, I was like, of course she’s a Music Hunter. We know that Hunters seek treasure. We have been bombarded with so many striking treasures over the last few episodes. The mummy of Princess Corco, or whatever her name is. [laughs quietly] The Kurta eyes, you know. Another hand of an Egyptian mummy.
Keith: The jellied infant skulls.
Jack: The jellied infant skulls. Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: The lock of a singer’s hair. So when Melody said she was searching for a piece of sheet music called the Sonata of Darkness, I was like, “Okay. Yep.”
Keith: Yep.
Jack: She’s a Music Hunter. Sounds good. However, as the art style changes to horrific abstracted fire with the hint, the hint of figures visible in it, we learn that this is a sonata said to be composed by the Devil himself, containing solo parts for the piano, violin, flute, or harp, and hearing or playing the music will give you a horrible curse. How do we want to— because the word that I'm drawn to immediately here is the Devil himself.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yep. What do you— [laughs quietly] Let’s get into it, huh?
Jack: So, the Devil’s real? I can't tell whether Togashi…so, I have two thoughts here. I can't tell whether or not Togashi is making meaningful statements about the nature of his world or whether he is engaging in something that we know he loves to do, which is a kind of collage of real world [Keith: Mm.] things to produce a kind of effect. You know, we've seen this in Yorknew. We see this in Egypersia, the place that they talked about earlier.
Keith: Oh my god.
Jack: We've seen this in— mm?
Keith: Sorry, I'm looking at the hunterxhunter.fandom.com wiki page for Sonata of Darkness and there’s something very interesting about the way it’s depicted in the 1999 anime. I'm going to share it.
Jack: Okay. So—
Keith: Fascinating.
Jack: The other thing, you know, I think that that second argument—you know, that he’s just doing a collage that he likes to do—is all very well when you're talking about Yorknew City or Southernbees, but I think when you say something as specific as this sonata was composed by the Devil himself [Keith: Mm-hmm.] and then as we get into some interesting—
Keith: Just to compare, that is the one that we see in the show. The one that— and the 1999 anime.
Dre: Is way more fucked up.
Keith: That’s fucking Chrollo!
Sylvia: Yeah, that is fucking Chrollo!
Keith: That’s fucking Chrollo!
Sylvia: Wow!
Dre: Oh, that is Chrollo.
Jack: Okay, so, Keith has posted…so, the vision that we see when Melody describes the Devil writing the sonata is— so, in the 2011, we see this— both of these images are in a sort of abstracted— the thing that it really reminded me of was, like, the art of Francis Bacon. You know, semi-abstract, very unsettling, smeared colors. Here we can see the Devil or a horned figure holding a quill next to some skulls, writing a piece of music, and this is also how it appears in the manga panel. Actually, it’s almost exact that they've carried this manga panel over.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It’s this horrible scribbly drawing of, yeah, a Christian devil grinning and writing a piece of sheet music. Now.
Sylvia: The manga version, the, like, linework on it really reminds me of, like, Amano’s Final Fantasy work a little bit.
Jack: Oh, yeah, totally.
Keith: Yeah. It’s both—
Sylvia: This is like a bad guy from FFII or something.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: It’s both more scratchy and, like, scribbled than the 2011 anime, but it is more legible, because it’s in black and white and done with pen.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Now, the 1991 version is much—
Dre: ‘99.
Keith: ‘99. Yeah.
Jack: Sorry. [laughs quietly] The 1991. The ‘99 version is much cooler. It is, again, this sort of Francis Bacon, but it’s even more explicitly a Francis Bacon thing. Rather than being an image full of detail and color, it is these two— it’s a black screen with two images, one on either side. On the right hand side, we can see a lute, a medieval lute being played by these kind of twisted tentacles rising out of the darkness, a sort of Hieronymous Bosch style thing.
Sylvia: Huh.
Jack: And on the left, we have a distorted figure with a ruined sort of shattered snarling face holding open a book that is Chrollo. It’s got Chrollo’s black jacket. It’s got the white ruff that he wears around his head. He’s got blood coming out of his ears, which is incredible. I think he even has detail on his sleeve that matches [Keith: Yeah.] the detail on Chrollo’s sleeve.
Keith: His slicked back hair.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: I love how the collar and the, like, shoulder bit come together to look like he’s partially made out of a vulture. [Keith chuckles]
Jack: Yeah! Oh, that’s so good!
Sylvia: It’s really cool looking.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: This is wonderful. In general, when I've seen stuff from the 1999, I have preferred the way that the 2011 thing looks, in terms of the depictions of characters, but this is unquestionably a better frame here.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: I can see why they might not have— okay. Togashi drew the Devil. The 2011 drew the Devil. The 20— the 1999 drew Chrollo, and that is an adaptive move.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I can see why they might go, “Mm, we're not going to do that.”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: You are saying things when you draw that.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Um…oh shoot, I forgot what I was going to say.
Keith: It also, to me, it sort of implies that the Devil thing is not literal.
Sylvia: I mean, yeah, that was what I— 
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Actually, thank you. That jogged my memory. That was something I was gonna bring up when we first got on this is, like, it is said to be written by the Devil, but it is also, like, Nen use at such a high level could be what’s responsible for this thing instead of it being [Keith: Right.] the actual Devil, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I am now playing in my head with a working theory that I've been thinking a lot about since Nen started showing up in a really big way, which is— and this is playful thinking. I don't expect [Sylvia: Uh huh.] the show to vindicate this. I think that—
Keith: Nen is the power of angels and demons.
Jack: I think Nen is something from a demonic place. I think Nen— I think that— you know, humans have misunderstood something, and they call it Nen, and they say that it is a power of the human aura. That is their way of talking about tapping into a world that is dangerous and on the other side of some kind of veil. You know, the thing that the woman made when she said to Kurapika, “Can you see this?” That was a demon. The ghostwriter that Miss Neon uses to tell people’s fortunes? That is tapping into a demonic realm. And so, in this sense, when it’s like, oh, this melody was produced by a devil, and you say, “well, it could just be Nen use,” that might be the same thing.
Sylvia: Yeah. [laughs quietly] 
Jack: Yeah. We'll come back to talking about the Devil in the next episode, but Melody reveals—
Sylvia: Frequently, honestly. [Jack laughs quietly]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Melody reveals that— she pulls up her sleeve, and in silhouette, reveals that her arm is— I can't really tell, and it’s deliberate that you can't tell. It’s either that her arm is very badly scarred or that it is covered in fur, but she says that she heard one movement of it played on the flute in solo, and it did this to her. And the woman who played it on the flute— ah, this is great creepy description. She says, “That day we were drunk and giddy,” and I love this feeling of these two people, you know, one of them plays the flute, and they have found, somehow, a piece of music that they have heard a legend is cursed, and they say, “Oh, you know, maybe it is cursed; maybe it’s not,” and they, you know, have too much wine or whatever, and then she says, “All right, I'm gonna play it,” and she sight reads this piece of music. And then Melody says, “Her whole body turns to this,” and we suddenly cut back into this Francis Bacon style, as we see just a room drenched in smeared abstract red gorey colors and a shriveled blackened sort of husk of a body lying on a bed. 
It’s fucking great. This is the biggest sort of, like, Nen reaching into the realm of, like, cosmic horror in the way that the show is depicting it. You know, this is the classic music that makes you go mad or, like…as I understand it, the concept of, like, the Devil in music. You know, the diminished fifth or something. You know, there was this chord that was considered to be unholy or a source of the Devil in Christian music, and as I understand it, that is broadly apocryphal and is primarily constructed by, like, 19th century musicologists wanting to, you know, make statements about how ancient music worked. But nevertheless, people have always been excited about the idea of cursed or demonic music, and it showing up in this show in this way is so cool.
Keith: And hey, we know that you can imbue Nen into a cassette tape, so why not into a sheet of music?
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, exactly.
Jack: It’s so creepy. I love it.
Keith: What is sheet music but the cassettes of the past?
Jack: That’s what they say. The diabolus in musica is the tritone, three adjacent whole tones, also known as the devil’s interval, which is great. [Jack and Keith laugh] She wants to restore her body and believes that she can, and she also wants to, as part of this, find the score and destroy it and has come to this underground evil auction by saying, “I was hoping one devil would know another,” which is kind of exactly the same as Kurapika’s reason for coming.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: But for a very different sort of goal. You know, Kurapika is there because he saw his entire culture destroyed for their eyes. Melody is here because she and a friend destroyed themselves, and she is looking to save herself and prevent others— prevent this fate from happening to others.
Sylvia: I love Melody so much.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: We get so much good— like, this whole thing I just was like, oh yeah, this is why this character is so fondly remembered by me, is like, this whole story and the way she carries herself with Kurapika after it.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Just like, I think it’s, like, very— I like that we— the way that we got relationships for Gon and Killua outside of the main group with Zushi and Wing, I like that Kurapika gets that with Melody and the other bodyguards, at least while they're around. 
Keith: Mm-hmm. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: You know what I mean? Like, I think it’s, like, a good— a just, like, characterization 101 is to make sure that your characters don't— like, interact with more than just the protagonists, right?
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. It also, um…she’s a great vehicle, like, just practically speaking, for showing how Nen and abilities are bigger than how they appear on paper.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Like, the ability— like, super hearing, hearing heartbeats. Like, sure, you can think of how these applications would work, but then when you mix that into real life, you get—you know, their real life—you get someone like Melody, who’s like, “Oh, I can hear how people’s hearts change as different things are happening,” and was able to figure out that the Kurta’s eyes were important to Kurapika without ever having heard him say anything about the eyes. Just, like, every time they came up, his heart changed [Sylvia: Yeah.] and got, like, you know, intense and angry; wrathful, I think is what she says. But like, that’s, like, a really interesting application of a power that when you first hear of it seems like kind of a minor ability.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Like, hearing someone’s heart once, sure. Hearing someone’s heart, you know, 500 times in a bunch of different contexts and then being able to piece things together from that is, like, very cool.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. It’s fantastic. 
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I love her.
Keith: Music Hunter.
Sylvia: Real good, like, here are the…did we specifically shout out the shot where she pulls her sleeve up and it’s, like, [Keith: Yeah.] kind of blurry, but you can see the—? Okay, good, because, like, that…
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: That’s just good, like, framing. I love the fact that you don't get a clear image of what it did to her.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: That’s the end of that episode, [Jack: Yeah.] is the Sonata of Darkness explanation.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: And then we start episode 43, unless there’s anything else from 42 that we…
Jack: Uh, I had a Melody note. What did I want to— a melody note. Eh. [Keith and Sylvia laugh] Oh! I want to say that I was right. I said that—
Keith: I have two harmony notes.
Jack: I think the way that Melody— I think last episode I said I think Melody is a— has experienced some great trauma that has transformed her into the way that she is.
Keith: Oh, there you go.
Dre: Mm, yep.
Jack: And we're gonna learn about that, and then we did, very quickly.
Keith: Was that your prediction from the beginning of the episode that you were talking about?
Jack: That’s one of them.
Keith: Okay. Ooh, multiple. 
Episode 43 [1:07:15]
Keith: So, the beginning of the next episode, we actually already covered this. This is the mafia bidding at the auction, like the political stuff about the 5% with the…so, we already covered that. And then, the first thing that happens is, [Dre laughs] okay, time to start the auction. Who’s the emcee? Oh, it’s Feitan and Franklin.
Sylvia: It makes me so happy.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Seeing them come out here [Keith laughs] in their shitty little fucking…
Keith: Straightaway!
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: And also, again, nobody seems to notice.
Jack: [cross] I will say—
Keith: [cross] Well, until the bullets.
Dre: Until the bullets. But like, Franklin is a, uh, conspicuous dude.
Keith: Yes.
Jack: Yes. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: You would think someone would remember—
Sylvia: He’s an interesting critter.
Dre: Yeah, someone would be like, “Hey, I don't think the emcee was that big.” [Dre, Jack, and Keith laugh]
Keith: Well, I think—
Jack: I—
Dre: But I guess not.
Keith: Jack, go ahead?
Jack: I am so impressed by how little the Phantom Troupe mess about.
Keith: Yeah. It is—
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: We have seen so many characters in this show screw themselves over by showboating, by pissing about, you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: The Phantom Troupe are wasting absolutely no time.
Keith: It is funny what Togashi decides to spend a lot of time on.
Jack: Oh, yeah. Yeah, absolutely.
Keith: You know, Nen: four episodes. Beating these three idiots who hang out at the Heavens Arena: you know, three episodes. Thinking about the Hisoka-Kastro fight: one whole episode about thinking about a fight. Then that fight takes a whole episode. The Hunter Exam took 20-something episodes. [Jack laughs] We got zero minutes of auction.
Jack: Yeah. Because what happens—
Keith: They set up this auction— for two seasons they've been setting up this auction. [Dre laughs]
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: And the auction is over before it starts. 
Jack: Franklin— 
Sylvia: You know.
Jack: We are not kidding when we say there is no auction. Franklin and Feitan show up. Feitan introduces, you know, says, “Thanks for coming. It’s time to get this started.” The tips of Feitan’s* fingertips— fingers fall off, [Keith: Yeah.] hanging on by chains, revealing that each of his fingers is a machine gun, and he machine guns the entire crowd.
Sylvia: This ability is called Dual Machine Gun: Ambidextrous Automatic Weapons.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It is.
Sylvia: To be clear.
Keith: Uh, was mine slightly different? Yeah, mine was slightly different. My Ambidextrous Automatic Weapons: Double Machine Gun.
Sylvia: Oh, that’s really good.
Jack: You might be thinking, “Surely you don't mean everybody is killed.” 
Sylvia: No.
Jack: Everybody is killed.
Dre: No, everybody.
Keith: Everybody is killed.
Sylvia: Everybody is killed.
Dre: And does that include our three friends?
Jack: Yep. And in fact, [Sylvia laughs] they're killed extremely unceremoniously.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, it’s great.
Jack: Tocino? Tochino?
Keith: Tocino, yeah.
Jack: He says, like…what does he say? 
Keith: He—
Jack: He uses his special spell called Eleven Assistants: Thankless Heroes.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Keith: Oh, mine has a worse name this time. Thankless Heroes: Eleven Black Children is what it’s called.
Jack: Oh, that is not as good.
Sylvia: Oh. 
Dre: Oh.
Sylvia: That’s terrible.
Jack: And these are the—
Sylvia: I'm not adding that one to the doc.
Keith: Yeah, don't add that one.
Sylvia: By the way, I added an ability names section to our doc.
Dre: Ooh.
Keith: I do like Thankless Heroes a lot.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. We have Thankless Heroes.
Sylvia: Thankless Heroes is very funny, with an exclamation mark at the end.
Jack: Yes. Tocino kind of fucks up by breaking one of Togashi’s great rules. In much the same way as IO Interactive who make Hitman seem to have made a pact where they have to include an extremely fancy kitchen in every single one of their levels, Togashi freaks are not allowed to be introduced without a montage of the freak’s cool individual powers.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: So Tocino was fucked by introducing 11 guys who look the same and do the same thing, because they all get machine gunned, and then he gets shot in the head and dies. Who goes out next? Another one of the bodyguards gets taken out?
Keith: Well, they do—
Sylvia: Oh.
Keith: They do get to— they do fit in some, like, Nen chess into the brief window where Tocino’s still alive, when the bullets start ripping through his Thankless Heroes and he goes, “Oh my god, these are Nen bullets. [Jack chuckles] They're going to rip through my Thankless Heroes and then into my body,” and then that is exactly what happens.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: You know, the normal bullets probably wouldn't have done anything to either of them, but.
Jack: I'm going to—
Sylvia: I think also confirmed our first Emitter ability being used, right?
Jack: Oh.
Sylvia: Other than Wing maybe kind of doing that to the wall.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Kastro used an Emitter ability. His body double, that was Emitter. 
[incorrect buzzer]
Keith: Keith from the future here to tell Keith from the past that Kastro was an Enhancer that was using Manipulation and Conjuration, not Emission and Conjuration. 
[correct ding]
Sylvia: Oh, was that— was that an Emitter?
Keith: Yeah, it was—
Sylvia: I thought that was a, uh…is Conjurer not one? Did I make that up?
Keith: It was both. That was the problem with it.
Sylvia: Oh, okay.
Keith: It was he was conjuring and emitting at the same time like an idiot.
Sylvia: Right!
Jack: Classic mistake.
Sylvia: Well, [laughs quietly] Uvo’s not making that fucking mistake, [Jack: Nope.] let me tell you that.
Jack: It is so funny to me the way this show— and I have to imagine this is just going to keep happening, this is going to be a hallmark of the show, is “that’s not just regular X, that’s Nen X!” [Keith and Jack laugh]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Seems like this is gonna be the game.
Keith: You know, I'll— I'm willing to—
Dre: Well, I mean…
Keith: I'm willing to say right now.
Dre: Yeah, go ahead.
Keith: There’s a point where we're not in a position to be thinking that anything is anything other than Nen.
Jack: Mm. Mm-hmm.
Keith: And it moves things along.
Dre: Yeah, that’s true.
Jack: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Dre: I was gonna say, to Jack’s point, the next scene is [Keith: Yeah.] Ivinklev? Is that his name?
Keith: Uh…
Jack: Oh, yeah. 
Sylvia: Uh, Ivankov?
Jack: This is one of the previously unnamed bodyguards.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Wait.
Keith: It’s close to that. I have it in the doc; I'm just not on the right page. It is—
Sylvia: I named a One Piece character, (??? 1:13:20) 
Dre: Ivinklev?
Keith: Uh, yeah. Ivlinkov, yeah.
Dre: I-V-L…yeah, okay. So, yeah, then Ivonklov or Ivinklov just gets killed by a vacuum with Nen.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, he does!
Keith: Yeah, he does.
Dre: So, Jack, I'm glad that me accidentally spoiling that a vacuum is in this show—
Jack: The thing is…
Dre: We get to close that loop real quick.
Jack: It didn't help. [Dre and Sylvia laugh] I didn't—
Keith: No, and I think I said that at the time.
Jack: It didn't—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: I had forgotten— the vacuum cleaner, when it arrives, which is— this is the Nen art of Shizuku.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Is so bizarre.
Dre: Please, it has a name.
Jack: This vacuum cleaner is called Blinky.
Dre: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Yep.
Jack: So called because it is, like, one of those vacuum cleaners that is, like, on a little trundling guy that you drag around. [laughs] 
Dre: Uh huh.
Keith: Uh huh.
Jack: And the little trundling guy has eyes, and also the top of the vacuum has a mouth and sharp teeth and a tongue, and she just fucking obliterates people with this little vacuum cleaner. This is very odd. And I think that’s all I have to say about that. [Keith and Jack laugh]
Sylvia: Yeah. I love how, like, unsettling the Shizuku attack is. Like, it’s so— there’s something about the— there’s some weird difference to me with how the Uvo stuff felt versus, like, seeing someone just, like…the fact that I think it was Baise running away and getting clonked in the back of the head [Dre: Mm-hmm.] by Blinky.
Keith: Yeah. Brained by a vacuum, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. That really made me be like, oh, this is, like, kind of horrible.
Dre: Yeah. Well, especially, [Jack: Also—] up to that point, we’d only seen Shizuku, like— we haven't seen her be violent at all.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: And in fact kind of, like, “Aw, aw beans, I lost arm wrestling. Aw!” That doesn't seem [Jack: Yeah.] like the type of person who is like, “Nah, I'm gonna kill you in cold blood as you try to run away.”
Sylvia: It’s really good.
Dre: That’s the Phantom Troupe, baby.
Keith: Yep.
Jack: I think it’s also so, like, silly. There is a very unsettling mismatch between how [Sylvia: Uh huh.] ridiculous Blinky is as a— it’s a vacuum cleaner with eyes, but she uses it not only to kill, you know, a character that we’d been set up as not a main character but, like, an interesting secondary character.
Dre: Important. Yeah.
Sylvia: A named character.
Jack: Yeah, totally. And then she goes into this room that is just full of bodies and this massive pool of blood.
Keith: It’s a genuine pool of blood.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: It’s so gnarly.
Keith: The whole room is covered in, like, an inch of blood. It is the blood of a hundred people.
Jack: It’s a really good shot. We get these great panning shots in a lot of Hunter × Hunter, usually, like, wide shots as we move across this wide room, often of, like, a bunch of weirdos, but here it’s just we pan up through bodies to the Phantom Troupe. And then Shizuku’s vacuum, Blinky, cleans up all of the mess. Well, not quite all, because…
Sylvia: Well, 'cause she says to Blinky, “Clean up the blood, the corpses, and pick up any valuables,” I think, that are on the ground?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: But that does not— that order does not cover people who are still not dead, so there’s one person who is bleeding out.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Left in the crowd of bodies.
Keith: Right before this happens, I think it’s really— it speaks to the Phantom Troupe, I think. You know, Feitan still sounding bored. The fact that they just killed a hundred people is, like, it’s not even…it’s not even meaningless in, like, a sort of nihilistic sort of way. They just genuinely seem bored, but they do get a little kick out of Shizuku using the ability. Feitan says, “Her Nen ability is always fun to watch.”
Jack: Yeah. It’s creepy.
Sylvia: It’s so funny.
Jack: Yeah, so this one surviving mafia member basically says, “We're gonna fucking get you.” It’s like the classic— it’s very much a dying mafioso dialogue, you know, of like, the families are gonna fuck you up. They're gonna torture you. They're gonna cut you into pieces. We will be avenged or whatever. And Feitan sharpens one of his fingers like Killua does and decapitates him in one blow, saying, “Family? What’s that?”
Keith: Which I love, because Feitan has a family! They're called the Phantom Troupe.
Jack: Feitan absolutely has a family; they're called the Phantom Troupe. This is the most toxic person you know writing about how much they love found family stories. [Keith laughs] This is— you know? 
Sylvia: Yeah. When I say it, this is what I mean.
Jack: [laughs] It’s great. Brief Feitan note: we've previously seen Feitan depicted in this very distinctive outfit with an extremely high collar that covers his mouth.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I had thought that this was because there was something cool or creepy going on with his mouth. When he is in his auctioneer guise, he is just wearing a suit. Nope.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: He’s a normal looking guy.
Keith: He’s just a guy. He’s just a pale, short guy.
Sylvia: He’s just a creepy little, like, mall goth, you know?
Keith: He does have— he does have, like, a distinctly creepy kind of look to him. Here’s—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Here’s a screencap of his starting the ceremonies. [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: This is him skipping the formalities, [Keith: Yeah.] which is also— you did post earlier, so. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Oh, I posted this earlier?
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Oh, I did.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: You did.
Sylvia: Yeah, look right above—
Keith: Sorry, the vacuum’s above it.
Sylvia: It’s “I'm skipping the formalities,” and then Blinky.
Keith: The vacuum is above it.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I forgot that I posted it already. 
Sylvia: [laughs] You're all good.
Jack: It is worth saying that between the sharpened, uh, the sharpened fingers, the way that that death is shot in, like, a side view where we have the silhouette of the blood and then Feitan’s line, you know, “Family? What’s that?” this is Killua.
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Jack: To the point where my immediate thought was, “Oh, is Feitan a…” uh, what are they called? A Zoldyck [Keith: Zoldyck.] assassin.
Keith: Oh, assassin. Well.
Jack: A Zoldyck assassin. And the jury’s still out on that. I think that that is a…mm.
Keith: I mean, we know one thing. He is an assassin.
Jack: He is an assassin. Uh, the Phantom Troupe are not assassins. They are thieves; please.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Well, they do assassinating.
Dre: Sometimes they just kill people while they're stealing things.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: You can steal a life.
Jack: Yeah, that’s very true. But I just think…it is not just me, right? There is something deliberate happening in the use of the move, the way it is shot, and then the neat summing up of Killua’s main character sort of motivation. It’s notable to me.
Keith: I, uh…you know. Knowing Feitan’s last name, I don't know if they ever say it. I don't know.
Jack: [conspiratorially] Feitan Paradinight. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Oh, that’d be crazy!
Keith: That’d be great.
Jack: But no, I like Feitan. It’s fun to have, like, a little normal weirdo in the Phantom Troupe.
Keith: Sure. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: Because they're all—
Sylvia: Yeah, sure.
Keith: I actually think there's a lot of normal weirdos in the Phantom Troupe.
Jack: See, I don't know. I might not have seen them long enough, but I think even little Dragon Quest boy, who would be normal anywhere else, he is creepy [cross] because he’s in the Phantom Troupe.
Dre: [cross] Nah, he’s creepy. I think Uvogin is a normal weirdo.
Keith: I think he’s the most normal one. I actually think that Shalnark is the normalest guy.
Jack: The Dragon Quest kid?
Dre: But I think that makes him less normal.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Okay. 
Jack: This is what I'm saying. 
Keith: Well, then, maybe it’s Phinks, then.
Jack: Feitan is very normal to me, because he’s— which one is Phinks?
Keith: Phinks is the racecar driver. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: Oh, sure.
Sylvia: That’s a real—
Keith: He’s just, like, the angry guy.
Dre: Yeah, Phinks is pretty normal looking.
Sylvia: That’s a really funny answer, Keith. 
Keith: [laughs] No, that’s from— that’s a callback to last recording.
Sylvia: Okay.
Jack: Yes. 
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: We've called him the racing car driver, the racecar driver before.
Keith: Yeah, I can't remember who originally said racecar driver, but I thought that—
Sylvia: It was Jack.
Keith: Okay. I knew that Jack would remember.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, I still don't know their names yet, but I think I know them all.
Keith: They're all on the thing. You can look at them.
Jack: Oh yeah, but I, you know, why should I use the resources that we've made for ourselves in this show? [Dre, Keith, and Jack laugh] No, that’s not true. So, this is great. This guy’s a little Killua, and I think they're gonna be great friends.
Keith: Yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: The problem with there being— no, it’s an anime. I was about to say the probably with there being 13 members of the Phantom Troupe is are all our heroes going to get a chance to meet them, but it’s like, that’s kind of the thing.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: We're gonna play themes and variations on who meets whom.
Keith: Sure.
Jack: Anyway, the auction’s fucked. [Sylvia laughs quietly] There is something really, really cool here about the way that this all gets reduced back down to nothing. There is really— there is something really striking about the show going from the most intense mass violence that we have seen and then immediately turning the volume, you know, back down to zero. There is— once Shizuku is done and the Phantom Troupe have escaped, it is as though everybody has disappeared completely. 
Keith: Yeah, they created a mystery by using Blinky to suck up all of the blood. Like, they're gone, and we know that something’s happened, and they didn't take the bullets out of the walls, or they didn't take the bullet holes anyway. I guess there wouldn't be bullets, 'cause it was Nen, so it probably just dissipated or something.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: But it’s like, clearly something’s happened. Hundreds of people are missing, and there’s bullet holes in the wall.
Jack: And then Togashi performs Togashi’s Trick, and this is one of my favorite—
Keith: This is a great trick. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Jack: Favorite instances of the trick, which is now that the mystery of where have all the people gone has been solved, we the viewer know exactly how that mystery is solved, we are introduced to a new mystery, except our guide to this mystery is the Phantom Troupe, because the Phantom Troupe discovers that all of the goods in the vault disappeared [Dre: Mm-hmm.] before they arrived there. The Phantom Troupe—
Keith: Which the mafia on the ground do not know this.
Jack: Nope. Some higher up mafia has ordered this, and we'll get into what the Phantom Troupe’s immediate sort of supposition is here, but I do want to, you know, zoom in specifically on the move that Togashi makes here, because from here on, the Phantom Troupe are kind of our POV characters for this episode.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: As they begin to try and solve this mystery. It is wonderful. Togashi has sort of freed us from the uninteresting legwork of watching our heroes try and solve, you know, the mystery that we just saw the Phantom Troupe execute and instead is burdening us with a much more interesting mystery to solve and much more interesting characters to see try and solve it.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: There’s a kind of readiness to offer the camera, to hand the camera to his secondary characters and to his villains [Keith: Yeah.] and then find interesting questions for them to have to answer. You know, it’s not just a case of, oh, we're cutting to the villains and we're getting to see them do villainy. We're cutting to the villains because they've got a problem they need to solve, and we are going to be let into the process of them figuring that problem out. It’s so cool.
Keith: It is a sort of signature, to me, of the show, how over the course of it the net that the camera casts gets just wider and wider, and it is like, it does sort of feel like, uh…it does sort of feel like we're breaking some sort of barrier, and we'll see this a lot, I think, going forward, of like, when the camera is flying away with the Phantom Troupe in the hot air balloon, it is like, it’s like stretching rubber past its breaking point, [someone chuckles] and it will no longer return to the small original size. It is now forever warped by this.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: This is the furthest away that we ever really go for the longest amount of time. It will stay warped like this, I think, forever.
Jack: That’s so interesting. It’s wonderful, because this is an extension of the thing that we saw first when Tonpa, you know, introduces himself, and then the camera [Keith: Yeah.] goes wandering off with Tonpa, except now it has been introduced to the villains, you know, these bogeymen who were off camera for so long. We are now sticking around with them as they struggle to resolve a narrative question.
Keith: They do such a good job of foregrounding this kind of thing. If it just happened out of nowhere, if this was, like, the first time we ever left the protagonists, it would be so weird to all of a sudden be in the Phantom Troupe show.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah. The genocidal maniacs. The Phantom Troupe— it’s not even like they're antiheroes. You know.
Keith: No. Well, [laughs] I think— eh, Togashi, I think, it’s another thing he’s trying to stretch is the definition of antihero, sometimes.
Jack: Yes, because as we see them trying to figure this out, the camera is treating them like people who we are invested in beyond…hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I feel more comfortable when the Phantom— oh, this is such a fucked up thing to say. I feel more comfortable when the Phantom Troupe are on screen than when Hisoka is on screen. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Even though he’s one of them, kind of.
Sylvia: Well…
Keith: It is funny, but like, there is this, like, notion that I think will continue. It’ll increase. Like, we're getting a lot of personality from the Phantom Troupe, and I think that the show is like, “What do you think about all their relationships with each other? Like, what do you think about how they all feel about each other and stuff? Like, what’s going on there? [Sylvia laughs] Don't you care about that?” And it’s like, it didn't occur to me that I would care about that, [Jack laughs] but yeah, okay.
Jack: Because they're the villains.
Keith: Yeah. [laughs] Okay, yeah, let’s see what you got, weirdo.
Jack: So, the Phantom Troupe call Chrollo, and they say, “I think there’s a traitor.” Specifically Uvo thinks that there is a traitor [Dre: Mm-hmm.] in the Troupe that has tipped them off, and—
Keith: This is— sorry, this is one of the great, like, functional things of the whole series to me. Like, they do such a good job of closing off a massive avenue of the— like, 'cause suspicion could run wild. They already don't really like Hisoka, who genuinely kind of isn't one of them. You know, if Chrollo isn't able to shut this down, it would be a real— or if, like, Togashi never thinks to shut this down, it could be a real narrative issue, and they just go so eloquently. You know, Chrollo is able to go like, “No, this is why it doesn't make sense to consider any one of us,” and whether or not he makes a convincing argument—I think he does—everyone else is behind him anyway.
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: So they just forget about it.
Jack: Chrollo’s argument essentially boils down to: if they knew the Phantom Troupe was coming, they would have been prepared for us in a way that they transparently weren't, and what would any member of the Phantom Troupe have to gain from selling out ot the stupid mafia? And that’s a good argument. 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: You know, if you want money, we have a huge amount of money. 
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: You want, you know, comfort? We can sort that out for you.
Keith: Yeah. To betray all of us, what would a traitor ask from the mafia?
Jack: And he gets here with eerily accurate prediction Jack, or rather, in the last episode we talked about Judas.
Sylvia: Yep.
Keith: Yes. Yeah.
Sylvia: I feel way smarter about this [Dre laughs] after seeing them explicitly say it. Should have been more confident last time.
Jack: You were— even at the time, I was thinking, “Yeah, Sylvi’s got this,” and I wrote down, “This is exactly what we said in the last episode.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Because, you know, already, we're in this biblical space by hearing about the sonata that was written by the Devil.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: But here we have Chrollo and Uvo talking about Judas, who, you know, sold information about Christ— essentially sold out Christ in exchange for money. And Chrollo’s argument is, you know, uses the, “Well, Judas wanted money in exchange, so why would— you know, what do we have to gain?” but I do think it is interesting that the show is dialing straight into this biblical sort of 12 disciples plus a 13th imagery that we were talking about last time.
[1:30:18]
Keith: And there’s this other thing that happens during this conversation, which is fascinating, because we know and Chrollo makes the case, like, clearly they knew something, but it wouldn't have come from us, or, you know, XYZ, they wouldn't have been unarmed and let us kill hundreds of them. That’s bizarre. So, they must have gotten the information from somewhere. And meanwhile, we know who, you know, definitely did warn all of the top brass of the mafia, and it’s Neon [Sylvia: Uh huh.] and Neon’s Nen ability that they have no idea about. And I think there’s a direct suggestion from the plot that it’s Neon, and I'm saying this [Dre: Mm.] because I genuinely don't remember. I promise I don't remember. While this is happening, the camera is laser focused on Hisoka, being like, you know, Chrollo’s saying, you know, it’s on Chrollo’s face, then it’s on Uvo’s face, and then on Chrollo’s face, going like, “Why would anybody betray us?” and then cuts straight to Hisoka, who we know is, you know, a wolf in a different rival wolf’s clothing. [Jack and Keith laugh]
Jack: Yeah, it’s weird, right? 'Cause I don't think Hisoka sold them out in this way, for exactly the reasons that Chrollo sort of lays out. But do I think that Hisoka is looking for his exact right move to betray the Phantom Troupe?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Absolutely! That guy’s— in fact, that guy’s biggest weakness right now [Dre chuckles] is that he is champing at the bit ready to, question mark, question mark, question mark? I think he wants to kill Chrollo or something. It’s…we have to be in an episode about Hisoka to properly figure out the murky depths of Hisoka’s, you know, motivations.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: It’s quite tough to do it in another episode. But this is kind of the longest we've heard Chrollo speak, and it’s really interesting, because…and I say this not as a judgment on Chrollo, more just the way the story works. His character design and his character isn't really coming together for me yet. I think that’s partly deliberate. I don't really know what this guy’s deal is or how I am supposed to think of him. He is, you know, being set up as this terrifying boss of a murderous, lethal, feared organization, who mostly sits at a table and reads. The crew look up to him for some reason that we don't know. The Phantom Troupe is capable of immense violence and ability, but we never see— we haven't so far seen Chrollo do that at all. His character design is this kind of hyper-saturated blacks, high contrast goth vibes.
Sylvia: Uh huh. [Dre laughs]
Jack: But his presentation is this— [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: What? [laughs] 
Dre: Uh huh.
Jack: What?
Sylvia: Uh huh!
Jack: Is this hyper-detached, laconic, almost absent figure. There are, like, a lot of bits of Chrollo that are being put onto the table in front of me, and I haven't quite got yet to the point where, like, I see the broader shape that they are making. And I'm on this train. This character is clearly really cool. He— right now, I am on the Chrollo train, because he is the boss of the Phantom Troupe and the Phantom Troupe are great, but I'm so curious to see, you know, where this is going to come together. As opposed to someone like Hisoka, who showed up on screen, and I knew his deal pretty much from the off.
Sylvia: You will— you will understand Chrollo, or at least have a vibe in mind when we see Chrollo, I think, when we get through the next watchthrough?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I feel like there’s some Chrollo stuff coming up that’s gonna be big.
Keith: I also feel like one of the most interesting things about Chrollo is how slowly he reveals himself through the episodes [Sylvia: Yeah.] and how big of a contrast that is with Hisoka, who—
Jack: With Hisoka, yes.
Keith: Who is happy to—
Dre: Who’s just there.
Keith: Happy to instantly let everyone know what the deal is.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And that’s part of the horror of Hisoka, because…you described, in the past, Gon as being a bit like Kiryu in the Yakuza games, where Kiryu is functionally unstoppable, [laughs quietly] because if someone disagrees with something he says, he just kicks the shit out of them, and is like…
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: You know, you can't beat me either ideologically or physically, because all [Keith: Right.] ideological concepts will get—
Keith: He’s unable to be tricked, because he can always win the fight. [Dre laughs]
Jack: Yes. [Sylvia laughs] There is something about the way Hisoka presents himself that is very similar. 
Keith: Right.
Jack: You know, the depths of Hisoka’s grossness and absurdity and power is on the surface of him at all times. He is just emitting it.
Keith: Right.
Jack: He’s not an Emitter. 
Keith: And is even—
Jack: He’s just conjuring it constantly.
Keith: It’s even— it’s one of— you know, it’s reflected even in how he fights too, when he talks about his Bungee Gum, which has the properties of both rubber and gum.
Dre: Oh!
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: He says, in the…in his fight with Kastro, or maybe it’s right after with Machi, and he’s like, my power is— it’s so good. It’s such a good power that it doesn't even matter if you know how it works, because you still can't defend against it.
Jack: Yes. Chrollo feels like I have dropped a coin down a well, and I am waiting to hear the sound that it makes.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Dre: Mm.
Jack: In order to let me know how deep the well is.
Keith: Right.
Jack: And right now, I've dropped a coin, and I'm going, “[clicks tongue] Well looks pretty deep.” [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: And there’s 12 murdering freaks standing near the well, being like, “Oh, it’s deep.” [laughs quietly] 
Jack: Well, but the thing that makes— [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: “Oh, trust us, it’s deep.” 
Jack: The thing that makes—
Sylvia: “I love this well. I'd die for this well.”
Jack: [laughs quietly] Yeah, exactly.
Sylvia: “It’s deep as hell.”
Keith: “I'd kill for this well.” [Dre laughs]
Jack: And the thing that makes Chrollo so funny is that, you know, we have this blank implacable well. You know, my shiny quarter disappearing into its depths. And yeah, there’s all these weirdos saying, “I love him. I'd die for him,” and one of them is a mummy, and one of them is dressed like a racing driver.
Sylvia: And one of them is your friend Sylvi.
Keith: And one of them is from Dragon Quest. 
Jack: [laughs] Hisoka is there, and he is just as animated about the rest of the Phantom Troupe but in a kind of different direction. It’s great. Did we say…? I can't remember if I talked about it in the last episode. I might have just said this already. But the vibe that I get with Hisoka and Chrollo is it’s like he can't tell if it’s, like, I want to be with her or I want to be her, looking at—
Sylvia: That is how I interpret it a lot of the time.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Fully, yeah, I think that’s…yeah, that’s it.
Jack: Yep. Great. Chrollo’s book. I want to talk about Chrollo’s book.
Keith: And it— I— no, that’s fine. 
Jack: [laughs] Uh, we don't—
Dre: You mean the bible?
Jack: Is it the bible? We know Chrollo likes—
Dre: No. No.
Keith: No, no, it’s not the bible.
Jack: We know Chrollo likes reading.
Dre: [laughs] It’s just, you know, they're in that ruined church. They're always playing the, like, hymnal music.
Jack: Chorale music. 
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: His name’s Lucilfer.
Dre: Uh huh. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: It’s the same book every time, right? [clip of "Dirge from Dark Side" plays] He is— yeah. [music ends] It’s great. Is he— he’s reading the same book?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Okay.
Sylvia: Yep.
Jack: Okay. Interesting. And the book has some writing on the title that, if I know how to read Hunter script, I would be able to read, but I don't.
Keith: Um…we learn what the book is.
Jack: Yeah. I—
Sylvia: Yeah, we will.
Jack: That’s what I figured.
Sylvia: We'll find out.
Jack: My suspicion is that the book is…it’s probably about Nen, isn't it?
Dre: Hmm.
Jack: Okay. Well, it’s time for the mafia to respond.
Sylvia: Oh hell yeah it is.
Jack: And the mafia are going to respond by calling in the Ten Dons. Ring the bell. Togashi’s bringing in a new squad of freaks in silhouettes. [Sylvia laughs] We see them all.
Keith: I love the rules of these Ten Dons, because it’s like, okay, there’s 10 dons. They meet once a year.
Jack: They rule each of the districts of the world.
Keith: They rule— they've divided the world into 10 mafia zones.
Sylvia: And we see the world map.
Dre: And we see the world for the first time, right?
Keith: We see the world map. Yeah, we see the world map for the first time. 
Jack: We'll get to that. We'll get to that.
Keith: Each of the 10 mafia zones are ruled by one of the Ten Dons, and each of the Ten Dons has a special little Nen guy named a Shadow Beast! 
Jack: [laughs] I know! It’s like—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: It’s like, um…it’s the hierarchy of needs, except it’s freaks, like a pyramid of freaks. [laughter] 
Sylvia: Oh, the hierarchy of freaks? That is also just the hierarchy of needs for me.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: ‘Cause you show me some guys like our friend Worm, and I'm satisfied forever.
Jack: It is— he cannot— Togashi cannot resist. He introduces all the Hunters. There’s our first crew. He introduces the Hunter, uh, the Hunter bosses, the Hunter teachers. He introduces the, uh, who’s our next freaks? All the weirdies that Kurapika meets [Dre: Sure.] at the manor house.
Keith: Yep, yep.
Jack: Then he gets really excited, 'cause he wants to unveil his greatest freaks so far: the 13 members of the Phantom Troupe. [Sylvia laughs] And then, as if he’s just, like, he sees the applause. It’s dril turning the racism dial. [Dre laughs] He sees the applause from the audience at the unveiling of his 13 freaks and gets so excited that he introduces 10 more freaks and then 10 more freaks in a single breath. [Keith laughs] And when we say he introduces them, I want to be clear that it’s not just that he’s saying, like, there’s 10 dons out there. Both the Ten Dons and their special forces unit, the Shadow Beasts, are shown in silhouette! There’s lots of weird spiky people. 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: There’s, you know. It’s…
Keith: Right.
Jack: Each of these people has a character design. He loves this.
Keith: And then, only seconds after this happens, we get a fucking Diglet dig coming right towards us, [Sylvia laughs] and then Worm pops out.
Jack: No, no, no, no, no.
Sylvia: No, poophead comes out of the hole.
Jack: Worm is way later. We got…
Sylvia: Oh, okay.
Jack: We got chasing.
Keith: Worm is way later, really?
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, we don't want to…
Keith: Oh, yeah, yeah. Worm is— [cross] there’s a whole scene. I missed a scene.
Dre: [cross] We got some indiscriminate mafia slaughter to get through.
Keith: We do have some more—
Jack: Yeah. [Dre laughs]
Keith: Some more mafia slaughter.
Jack: But before we talk— uh, firstly. Is, uh…now, here’s the thing. I feel like unveiling a little gang of freaks is something I associate really strongly with Sailor Moon. This is something that happens all the time in Sailor Moon is that the arcs are generally sort of, like, one gang of freaks shows up, and then the Sailor Scouts defeat the freaks, and then they're replaced by another gang of freaks, but I feel like Togashi is going for this with a particular kind of verve and delight.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Is this a Togashi hallmark in his other media?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, the—
Jack: He likes making a Pokédex of weirdies?
Keith: So— okay, so, there's the— there’s Yu Yu Hakusho, is his other major work, and we get a steady drip of freaks, up until, I think, the third season is called the Dark Tournament. It’s the longest season of the show. It is, like, one of five seasons, but it takes up about a third of the show, maybe a little bit more of the show’s total runtime. It’s, like, 45 episodes or something. And essentially it is a tournament arc. The whole thing is a tournament. It’s 45 straight episodes of tournament.
Jack: [unenthused] Great.
Keith: And every time they— it’s a team, so every time the Urameshi team, you know, moves up a rank, we get a whole new team of freaks to fight, so it’s just like, we're just getting— every three or four episodes, we're just getting five plus new freaks.
Jack: Lovely.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: It’s great.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Is it a shonen thing as well, but just to a slightly lesser degree?
Keith: Um…
Dre: It’s not not.
Keith: It’s not.
Dre: I don't know enough to say that, though.
Keith: It’s not, but it’s not not.
Jack: I feel like it’s the team of freaks that’s the important bit, because I feel like Dragon Ball is really fun, where it’s like, oh, we're introducing a guy that they have to fight, and he has magic—
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Uh, he has cool— what do they— what does Dragon Ball call Nen? Spirit powers?
Dre: Ki.
Keith: Ki.
Jack: Ki. Okay. [laughs quietly] 
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: But there is something about the way that Togashi opens them up like a little book, you know? 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: He opens this little— his address book, to the page Phantom Troupe, and each little slot. It’s really charming. And of course—
Dre: Well, with how, like, Nen works in this universe, every new character is—
Jack: I was just about to say.
Dre: Like, you know is gonna be something new. It’s gonna be like, okay, well, I get to learn, like, how they're a fucking weird freak in both their visual appearance and how they act as a character, but then I also get to learn about how they're a weird freak with their Nen ability.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah. 100%. And not to, you know, degrade Togashi’s ability here or whatever. I think he’s clearly demonstrating himself to be a real master of creating freaks. [Dre laughs quietly] But if this were my job, I would just love it so much. You go to work everyday; you get to come up with a new fucked up guy and the thing he does? [Keith laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Jack: It’s lovely.
Keith: Ah, but wouldn't you— eventually you'd feel the pressure of, like, oh my god, I've got a whole new kind of freak to come up with? I've already— there’s dozens of freaks!
Jack: That’s why he themes them, Keith.
Keith: It’s why what?
Jack: That’s why he themes them.
Keith: Oh, yeah, sure.
Jack: To the Phantom Troupe, you know? And that’s why they have sort of spiritual anchors to sort of nurture them, like Chrollo. [laughs quietly] He’s there to sort of, like, lock all the freaks together and help them achieve their best…
Keith: Satan is my drug.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: What? [laughs quietly] 
Dre: Sure. No, that makes sense.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, no, totally. Makes sense.
Jack: Let’s talk about the map of the world, because as the—
Dre: Let’s do it.
Jack: The mafia dons are revealed. We get a shot of the map of the world. Now, a couple of episodes ago, I asked, “Are we going to see a world map?” and you said, “Yes, we are. Do not look it up.” [Keith laughs quietly] And I was not expecting it to be so soon, you know, [Dre: Mm.] that we see a map of the world.
Keith: Sure. Still don't look it up.
Dre: Yeah, still don't look it up.
Jack: I still will not look it up. But…and let’s just say this outright. The map is Earth, except all the continents have been jumbled around. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Yes, and angled in towards the center.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Oh, well, almost all angled in.
Sylvia: So, really quick, before we get into this, I found a map that has locations marked on it. Will not be linking that. Did take that and put some places that we've already been to [Jack gasps] and put it on it.
Keith: Oh, great.
Jack: Oh, Sylvi!
Sylvia: You guys want to see that?
Keith: Yeah, I would love that.
Jack: Yeah, absolutely! This is great.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay, cool.
Keith: This’ll be great. This is going to be—
Sylvia: It’s very simple. I literally made this in Paint, so like, don't be too impressed. But the red one on this is Kukuroo Mountain, which is on the literally just Africa is the continent. It’s just…
Jack: Yeah. Kukuroo Mountain is in north— uh, not by a Hunter × Hunter map, by our map. I'm, like, arranging the world.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Kukuroo Mountain is in—
Keith: Well, it’s still north, but…
Jack: Northeast Africa.
Keith: Yeah. It’s in northeast Africa. It’s also in northeast Hunter world.
Jack: It’s in northwest Hunter world.
Keith: Oh, sorry, northwest, right.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. Then, near that is Heavens Arena, which is on the sort of, like, southern diagonal tip of that continent.
Jack: Yep. South central Africa.
Sylvia: The Hunter Selection Hotel is where the Hunter Selection Tournament took place. I wanted to double check that. I was really like, “Hold on, is this about something further?” No, that is where Gon got almost murdered by Hanzo.
Keith: Right.
Sylvia: That’s on— I think that’s— is that South America? 
Jack: [cross] Yeah, that is midway down South America.
Sylvia: [cross] It’s hard to tell with them all jumbled around.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. And then Zaban City is by the, like, sort of bottom of that continent in the Hunter × Hunter world.
Keith: In our world, it’s at the top. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Of South America.
Keith: It’s near where you're getting into Central America.
Sylvia: Yeah, and then…
Jack: And this next one’s fucked up. This one sucks.
Sylvia: What, Yorknew City?
Jack: Yeah. Yorknew City is in—
Keith: Is that, like, Quebec?
Jack: Yorknew City is in— I'm gonna have to turn this. No, Keith!
Keith: No?
Jack: That’s fucking— that’s Europe, isn't it?
Dre: No.
Keith: Oh, I thought that was Canada.
Sylvia: I feel like this—
Dre: No, that’s North America.
Sylvia: Yeah, those are some Great Lakes right there that are also going into the ocean.
Keith: Those are the Great Lakes. Yeah, that’s…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: So that’s like—
Sylvia: Yorknew City confirmed Toronto.
Keith: Yeah. [Jack laughs] Okay, yeah, Toronto, I guess.
Sylvia: No, it’s not.
Dre: Now, what in our world is the bottom of North America and what is the east of this continent definitely do not look the same.
Sylvia: Yeah, no, like…
Keith: Yeah. So, this continent where Yorknew City, it looks like part of… [Sylvia laughs quietly] like, half of America and most of Canada, and also the edges are kind of weird.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Do you want me to tell you— [cross] I do have the names of these continents.
Dre: [cross] And then mashed up with Europe, especially, like, the Nordic, like, countries and islands.
Sylvia: I have the names of some countries, but I don't know if they come up. I know some that do come up later that I won't be sharing.
Keith: Okay.
Jack: Okay. 
Sylvia: But…
Jack: Give us some that don't come up.
Sylvia: I can at least tell you that Yorknew City is in Yorbia. [Jack laughs]
Dre: Is that the country or the continent?
Sylvia: That is— I think that’s the country, 'cause this is partially…it’s, like, half of that continent, basically.
Jack: Oh, it’s like a mafia district. The mafia district of Yorbia.
Sylvia: It’s like the top corner. So, because this screenshot I took was kinda dark, let me pull up the Ten Dons map, 'cause that I might at least be able to be like, [Keith: Oh.] “It’s this color on that.”
Jack: Listener, I'm aware that this is a podcast and what we're doing [Dre: Yeah.] here is probably very difficult for you to understand.
Sylvia: Describing JPEGs?
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: It’s okay.
Jack: However.
Keith: This will be in the description. This will be in the description. 
Jack: Okay. I really recommend looking at an image, and a lot of this will make sense.
Keith: Look at the—
Sylvia: In this—
Keith: If you're worried about spoilers, look at the one in the description, 'cause that will be [Dre: Mm-hmm.] this exact thing, and you won't find spoilers, which you are likely to find.
Dre: Honestly, I'll say this too.
Sylvia: [cross] I spelled “broun” like our character name. [Jack laughs quietly]
Dre: [cross] If you go to the Hunterpedia and you look at their world of Hunter × Hunter, that map that they have there is the same map here.
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Just don't scroll or read anything else.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Well, no, that map has the tags that I referenced to make this on it.
Dre: Oh! 
Sylvia: That’s why I made— 
Dre: Also, Yorbia is the name of the continent, by the way.
Sylvia: Oh, okay, it is? Okay, cool. That’s why I made this, 'cause I was like, I want to be able to, like, talk about…
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Jack, I think—
Sylvia: The amount we've traveled without spoiling things for Jack.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: I think Europe is the very northeast, where you can see Ireland and the UK.
Jack: Yes, it is. You can see the UK.
Keith: You can see Scandinavia and then Europe.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: And you can see, like— you can see the Iberian peninsula.
Jack: If you are listening along and not looking at the image, the kind of notable thing is that— two notable things. Our characters haven't gone onto the eastern side of the map at all yet, and also, in the north in the middle of the map— so, you know, we have kind of these continents that have been— these Earth continents that have been separated and kind of turned inwards and then this big ocean in the middle, and at the bottom is Australia and Japan [Sylvia laughs] and New Zealand, and at the top is an island that does not appear on Earth’s map. It is—
Sylvia: That’s not Japan down there. Japan’s over by Zaban City, actually. It’s that little island off the coast there.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: What?
Sylvia: ‘Cause that one’s literally called Jappon. [laughs quietly] They just changed—
Dre: Oh. [laughs] 
Sylvia: They added a P and changed the second A to an O.
Jack: Why is Japan there? Okay.
Sylvia: Eh, why not?
Keith: Why is any of this stuff anywhere?
Dre: It seems like— yeah, a lot of the islands are chopped and screwed, it seems like.
Jack: Yes. The— at the top of the map is an island that looks like a sort of an N with a circular island in the middle of it. It’s like a barrier reef around an island. I'm just gonna make a prediction now: that’s where Ging is. Maybe not when we eventually find him, [Sylvia laughs] but in that shot of him on the, uh… [laughs quietly] on the teeter totter tower of monsters, that was there. That’s my guess.
[1:50:18]
Keith: Mm.
Jack: This map is great. I don't know, like I said about the Devil, whether this is just Togashi’s collage or whether he is trying to say something specific. You know, and the thing he’s trying to say is the world of Hunter × Hunter is the world of Earth that has been changed dramatically in some way.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Much like, you know, is this a…what’s the series that Shadow of the Torturer is part of?
Sylvia: Oh, um…
Jack: The New Earth. 
Sylvia: [cross] Book of the New Sun.
Jack: [cross] Book of the New Sun. Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. No, that’s why I wanted to talk about this was because of the, like, there are things that you could imply from the shape of the continents here about this being either an alternate timeline or far future or whatever version of our Earth.
Jack: Or it could be playful Togashi doing the same—
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Jack: You know, doing the same thing as Yorknew City, but do we get Yorknew City because it’s Earth that has been chopped and screwed? I don't know, and I'm not sure how much stuff I can draw from this meaningfully with this amount of information, in terms of—
Keith: Right now, it’s just fun.
Jack: It is just fun.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It is consistent with the way that this show thinks about the world, right? The world as a place of mystery and danger and playful exploration, and there is something to be—
Keith: And Wikipedia.
Jack: [laughs quietly] And Wikipedia.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And weird cell phones. There is something to be said for the fact that the world that it takes place in is a version of Earth that has been mangled [Sylvia: Mm-hmm.] to create this kind of bizarre dangerous playground, but beyond that, I think it is fun to notice. It was great to see the map and pause it and go, “Oh.” [laughs quietly] 
Dre: Oh, I want to ask you all a question of something I just noticed on the map [Sylvia: Uh huh?] that Sylvi posted that has, like, the Dons.
Sylvia: Oh, yes.
Dre: I can't tell if the little island that looks like an N with a dot in the middle of it, I can't tell if it is purple colored like the bottom half of what is Hunter × Hunter world Africa [Keith: Yeah.] or if it is uncolored and therefore it is, like, non-mafia territory.
Sylvia: I think it’s— it looks grayed out to me.
Dre: Oh.
Jack: Yeah, that’s 'cause Ging lives there with his teeter tower of monsters.
Keith: Oh, I was gonna say that it looks purple to me, like the, uh…like the other part.
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre: I couldn't tell. I could go both ways.
Keith: Yeah. Like where, uh…jeez, what is it? Heavens Arena is.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Oh. Interesting.
Keith: Yeah, so I think that that is the same territory, but I don't know.
Dre: Okay.
Jack: I love to see this map, [Keith: Yeah.] and I'm excited to see more about— to see more about, you know, why it looks like this.
Keith: Oh, that green and yellow must be the bottom half of America and Central America.
Jack: Hmm.
Keith: You can see Florida.
Dre: Oh, yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: That’s what I think. That’s what— this is all stupid. This doesn't matter. 
Sylvia: It’s fun.
Keith: It’s fun. Let’s get back to it. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: We heard someone talk about the globe in one of these episodes, and after having had map excitement, I was like, “Oh, that’s interesting.” You know, this is a round world, not a flat world.
Keith: I don't know about that.
Jack: Although whether that was just a figure of speech and we are going to discover that it’s a flat world, I don't know.
Dre: Who knows?
Keith: Who knows?
Jack: Who knows? Who knows?
Dre: Hey, generally, Jack: I don't know.
Jack: [laughs] Great.
Keith: I know a little something about it.
Jack: It was very fun when we decided that Hieron was flat. That was good.
Keith: That was fun. Yeah.
Dre: I forgot we did that.
Jack: Yeah. It’s good to decide that a world is flat and it not be consequential or rooted in a bunch of gross stuff.
Dre: Mm-hmm. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: Um…okay. The Phantom Troupe have learned that one of the Shadow Beasts, a man called the Owl—who has gray skin, wears sunglasses and a shirt—came to check out the vault before the auction. He walked in.
Keith: How did they find this out, by the way?
Jack: Oh, they tortured a man to death. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: I have the line about this. This is one of my favorite lines in these episodes. So, they're talking to Chrollo. Uvo tells Chrollo, “Feitan tortured him, so we know he wasn't lying when he said [Sylvia laughs] that he didn't know where Owl went,” and then it cuts to a closeup on Feitan who says, “He had the worst luck of anyone today.” [Jack laughs quietly] Terrifying.
Jack: Great.
Keith: Horrible.
Jack: Absolute horrible monsters. Yeah, so the Owl goes in, or Owl goes in, and the vault is full, and then he leaves with nothing in his pockets, and the vault [Keith: Yeah.] is completely empty. And Chrollo summises that he probably has a similar Nen power to Shizuku, right?
Sylvia: Shizuku, yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Which is smart thinking, and it’s very interesting that the way the world works is such that it’s like, Chrollo’s response isn't so much, “How could this mystery have happened?” and instead is like, “Oh, okay, a particular kind of Nen user. We'll have to get to the bottom of that.”
Keith: I also think it’s funny they show you Shizuku and her insane vacuum that vacuums up everything in a room when you tell it to, and then, like, to us, it’s crazy talk, and then you tell it to them, and they're like, “Oh, probably something like Shizuku, normal stuff.”
Jack: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Normal probably suck-up-vacuum kind of power. [Keith and Dre laugh quietly]
Jack: If 13— if number 13 is the weirdest most fucked up power in the Phantom Troupe, and number 1 is the most normal sensible power in the Phantom Troupe, my guess is that Uvo is probably 1. How accurate would you say that is?
Keith: Wait, sorry. Where 1 is the most normal and 13 is the most fucked up?
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: I think that’s accurate.
Jack: Okay. What is Shizuku?
Dre: Like, what number?
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: [sighs] 
Keith: I think that it’s very similar to her actual number.
Jack: Uh, which is, uh, 12? What is her number?
Keith: No. I think her number’s eight. No.
Jack: Eight!
Keith: Four? It’s either eight or four, right? It has to be.
Sylvia: Hold on. Uh, no. Isn't four Hisoka?
Dre: It’s eight. It’s eight.
Keith: It’s eight. Okay.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Um, I think—
Dre: Yes. Uh…well…
Keith: I think that she’s probably right in the middle. I think she’s something like six, probably, right?
Jack: She’s on the lower end of fucked up Nen powers in the Phantom Troupe?
Keith: She’s definitely in the first half, I think.
Sylvia: There’s some interesting Nen powers.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Wow! Hisoka is probably— we've seen Hisoka do some pretty cool stuff. He’s probably…but it’s a relative scale. You know, in a room full of absolute weird bananas guys, Hisoka would rank pretty low.
Dre: Maybe. I don't know.
Keith: Well, it’s got rubber and gum. 
Jack: It does have rubber and gum. [Dre laughs] I'm gonna say Hisoka is a five, because his power is objectively less weird than woman who has a vacuum cleaner.
Keith: Okay. Here’s a question. So, we also know Machi’s power.
Jack: Uh, sort of. Machi is a doctor who stitches people back together. With Nen.
Keith: Right, we know about her Nen stitches. So, that’s a really impressive power that’s, like, really cool and, like, difficult. Like, physically, biologically complicated. The fact that she can take a severed arm and instantly repair it with essentially no evidence of harm done to that arm within minutes.
Jack: Oh, yeah. That’s great, but we're not ranking for power.
Keith: We're not ranking for power. We're ranking for absurdity.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Right?
Jack: Yes. Yes.
Keith: Okay.
Jack: [cross] So Machi sounds pretty low.
Dre: [cross] Yeah, that’s not very absurd.
Keith: I'm gonna count out loud. We have pictures of all of them. I'm gonna count out loud, not tell you names, and I'm gonna go in an order that you will not be able to predict. So, I'm gonna count out loud who I think has a weirder power than Shizuku. One, two, three, four, five, maybe six.
Jack: Great. Great. So excited. Because we now move into just a banger piece of exciting television, as everybody goes on a car chase following the Phantom Troupe’s balloon. The Phantom Troupe resolves that they are going to turn and fight, [Keith: Yeah.] with no sort of sense of loss or danger here. They're not turning and fighting because they feel they've been backed into a corner; quite the contrary. They're turning and fighting to make a mess and get people of their trail so they can get back to more important stuff: figuring out where all their treasure has gone. So, they land the balloon, and we get a mafia standoff in the desert in the dark. It’s great. This is why people invented storytelling, to do stuff like this.
Keith: Yeah. There’s two parts of this that I just love. The first thing is Uvo immediately being like, [voice] “I've got this. I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna beat ‘em all up.”
Jack: Yes. Yes, that’s his plan. He really is just like, [voice] “Leave it to me, boys.”
Keith: And then everyone else is like, “Okay. Uh, we're gonna play cards.”
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s so funny. [Keith laughs]
Jack: Shark— Shalnark?
Keith: Shalnark, yeah.
Sylvia: Shalnark.
Jack: Yeah, Shalnark is like, “Ah, this is dull,” looking down as Uvo— let’s not beat about the bush. Uvo starts slaughtering the mafia members.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Jack: Cars keep showing up, full of mafia members.
Sylvia: Oh, it’s cool as hell.
Jack: Uvo—
Keith: Catches a bullet in his teeth, point blank.
Jack: Catches a bullet in his teeth. He’s great. I've written down, “What’s his Nen power? I bet turn into a bear.” No. [laughs quietly] He just kills. 
Keith: Be a bear.
Sylvia: I don't think a bear could catch a bullet in its teeth.
Jack: No, no, no.
Keith: What do you mean?
Dre: Maybe.
Sylvia: No.
Jack: He then breaks the man’s neck who shot him with one swipe, and the camera [cross] turns sideways for a POV shot from this man.
Sylvia: [cross] I love the camera. Yeah, yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It’s great.
Sylvia: It’s my favorite shot in the episode, I think. It’s such a good little, like, oh, he just knocked this dude’s head sideways, and he’s still alive long enough [Keith: Yeah.] to look at him from that perspective.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: There’s this thing that happens where it’s like— and it’s something that I always have to remind myself of when we're watching, or just— not have to, but it’s something that I always end up remembering when I'm like, “Why is this happening?” that Nen is secret. Some of these people know about Nen, because the mafia knows about Nen, but these are all grunts. Like, they don't understand how this guy isn't just a normal guy.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yes. Yes.
Keith: And so it isn't until something specific happens that they're like, “Oh, I'm officially too terrified to fight.” Like, until this thing happens, everyone’s like, “Well, eventually one of these bullets is gonna work, right?” [laughs quietly] 
Jack: It doesn't.
Sylvia: [voice] Well, eventually my super bazooka will take care of this, you know? [Jack laughs]
Keith: And this super bazooka is when people start to go, “Ah! I'm scared and running for my life! A super bazooka didn't even do it!”
Jack: Before this, two great things happen. Nobunaga— so, yes, Shalnark says, “Let’s just play cards,” and they sit down, and I had thought they were going to do, like, a betting game of, like, who’s— is he gonna do it? No. 
Keith: [laughs quietly] They're playing Go Fish.
Jack: They're just playing…yeah, they're playing Go Fish or something. Nobunaga says his philosophy— talking about Uvo, “His philosophy is simple. Be stronger than anyone or anything,” and boy, is he demonstrating it. From a mountain on the other side of the valley, a mafia sniper lines up a shot. The shot hits Uvo, and he kind of shrugs it off, and then he picks up a pebble and throws it, like, a mile across the valley to kill this sniper.
Keith: And he loved doing that too.
Sylvia: Can I say, and especially in the shot where he’s picking up the pebble and throwing it, Uvo looks so much like a Saiyan?
Jack: Oh, yeah.
Keith: He does look a lot like— he looks like Nappa, yeah.
Sylvia: Like, he’s very styled, like…I was thinking, like, Super Saiyan 4 with the hair.
Keith: Oh, with the hair, yeah.
Sylvia: But also a little bit of Raditz in there.
Keith: I just mean, like, the size of him looks like Nappa.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, absolutely, but I just thought it— I don't know. It stood out to me, probably because we watched Dragon Ball recently.
Keith: Power scaling has come up as a term that— it hasn't been— we haven't been able to do it, because Jack [Sylvia laughs] has only seen one thing, but I'm going to do some pointless and stupid power scaling now, or I'm going to make a power scaling statement, which is that I think Master Roshi could beat Uvo in a fight. I think that pretty handily, also. I think that Master Roshi is much, much, much stronger than Uvogin.
Sylvia: I'd love to see that.
Jack: Have we met anybody in Hunter × Hunter who you think could beat Uvo in a fight? Excluding his beloved boss, the man he’d die for.
Sylvia: Um…
Keith: So, this is the interesting thing about Hunter × Hunter and what makes it a really fun show is that people’s powers make it so that whatever their ability is, like— they can overcome not being physically strong by having an ability that they use well, and so I'm going to say yes, but not because they're— not necessary because they're literally stronger.
Jack: Right. Fair enough.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Something I real—
Sylvia: I think— I think maybe a couple in there though.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I don't know. I'm thinking. What if Wing fought Uvo? You think that would go well for Wing, or you think Wing is dead?
Keith: Wing’s an Enhancer.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: That’s what I'm saying.
Jack: Something that I've just noticed is Kurapika is the first of the crew who we have sort of seen have, like, a Nen power in the way we understand Nen, right? Kurapika does his chain bastard maneuvers, whereas Gon and Killua [clip of “Chain Bastard” begins] sort of just dash about. Thank you. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah! Let’s go! 
[music ends]
Jack: [laughs] Gon and Killua sort of dash about, right? We haven't seen them do— there’s Gon’s push and Killua’s punch or whatever it is, but…
Keith: Yeah, they haven't, like, developed an ability.
Jack: But Kurapika absolutely has, and that’s very Kurapika. He’s done the homework.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: He’s, you know.
Keith: It makes sense for Gon, because like, part of being an Enhancer is, like, focusing your Nen into a strong punch.
Sylvia: Yes.
Keith: And a lot of Enhancers can get by on just being a strong puncher.
Jack: Do you think you could beat Uvo?
Keith: No. Me? No. I would—
Sylvia: Guy like me? Probably. 
Keith: I would be stomped like a tiny ant beneath his massive boot.
Jack: I think I'd appeal to his better nature. [laughs quietly]
Dre: Hmm.
Sylvia: Oh, okay. [Jack laughs]
Dre: Sure.
Sylvia: Crack open a couple brewskies. 
Jack: Crack open a couple brewskies for the Uvo. [Dre laughs]
Keith: I think— if you're saying if I cross paths with Uvo, could I avoid being killed, then I think the answer is yes, because I have nothing that he wants, and I would not oppose him.
Jack: [laughs] He is a murderer, though. He might just take you out. I don't know.
Keith: Uh…
Dre: But he doesn't seem like he would, though. I don't know.
Jack: Listener, do you think you could beat Uvo?
Dre: No. No.
Sylvia: I would use my—
Jack: If the answer is yes, rate us five stars [Keith laughs] on Apple Podcasts and let us know how you would—
Dre: Hey, if the answer’s no, still rate us five stars. [laughs] 
Keith: Yeah, tell us how exactly Uvo would kill you.
Sylvia: I would use my Nen ability Ultimate Naptime: Good Night Moon, [Keith and Jack laugh] and he wouldn't be able to handle it at all.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: He'd go right beddy bye. 
Keith: Oh, this is an ability where someone else falls asleep. This isn't an ability where you fall asleep in the middle of the fight.
Sylvia: No, no, no, no. It puts people to…
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Maybe you both fall asleep.
Jack: I would use my Nen ability Make Another Cup of Coffee, Even Though I Haven't Finished the First, and then he’d kill me.
Dre: Mm. [Sylvia laughs quietly] Womp womp.
Jack: Well.
Sylvia: But wait, it’s such a good cup of coffee.
Jack: I know. [laughs] Ugh, such a shame. At this point, Kurapika, stating the obvious, says, “It appears the enemy can use Nen.” [Sylvia laughs] This is notable, because he can't tell this is the Troupe. That’s really interesting.
Keith: Yeah. 
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: At the very end of this episode, it says that he hasn't realized it’s the Phantom Troupe, which I think is an uncharacteristic oversight.
Jack: It really is. What does Kurapika know about the Phantom Troupe? Based on his conversation with Majtani, he knows they don't count kills, 'cause they have so many. 
Keith: He knows they're thieves.
Jack: This makes Majtani look even funnier now.
Keith: Oh, yeah. [laughs] Yeah! Yes. Majtani’s trick requires you to be in the very narrow scope of people who know about the Phantom Troupe but don't know anything about the Phantom Troupe, including, like, how strong they might be.
Jack: Yes. Yeah, so, Kurapika doesn't know, but at this point, Melody hears another heartbeat. Oh, and we have been told that the Shadow Beasts are coming. They have been dispatched, so it’s not exactly a surprise when they arrive.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: But they turn and see the best freak in a while, and that’s saying something.
Dre: It’s the freakiest freak, that’s for sure.
Sylvia: I called him this earlier, but he does have a poop head. Like, straight up.
Dre: Oh yeah, he’s just a poop emoji.
Sylvia: He comes out of the ground, and he’s a little turd.
Jack: He’s a weird little turd. He is called: Worm.
Keith: Worm. His name is Worm. [Sylvia laughs] He is like what if—
Dre: Oh worm?
Keith: He is like what if a worm. [laughs] 
Jack: Yeah. He pops up, and he just talks. I don't know what this guy’s deal is. I don't know if he’s like a demon. I don't know if he is a human who has made himself look like this through Nen. I don't know if he is a human who has experienced some sort of massive bodily trauma like Melody has, but he digs under the ground, and then, out of the shadows— [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Hey, maybe we'll have time to learn.
Jack: Maybe we will. Togashi just— Togashi, uh, excited by the wild audience reaction to Worm, gets overexcited and promptly introduces Rabid Dog, a Shadow Beast who looks like a human with sharp teeth and spiky hair. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Leech, a sort of short weird Shadow Beast. [laughs quietly] He just looks like a kind of creepy guy.
Dre: He just looks like a guy.
Keith: We'll figure out a little bit more about Leech.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: And then Porcupine, who looks like a guy with a single weird eyebrow in the middle of his face. 
Dre: Yeah, it’s Krillin.
Jack: They all introduce themselves. Yeah, it kind of is Krillin, that little mafia baby.
Keith: The English dub sounds like Krillin too. I don't…
Jack: Huh.
Dre: Oh, yeah, he kinda does.
Jack: He’s kind of, um…he’s kind of a little apologetic. He’s sort of like, “Hi, uh…hi. I'm, uh…I’m Porcupine. You guys can call me Porcupine.” And they get ready to fight. Kurapika is kind of excited to see them fight. He has one of those sort of little, [gasps] sort of expressions as they begin to head down, and the episode ends as everybody moves in to attack. 
Final Thoughts [2:09:10]
Jack: I will say there’s a couple of interesting things that happened here, as this episode ended. The first is that I know, based on the way we've talked about it, that the episodes that are coming up are real doozies, and I am so interested to see in what way they are real doozies, if they are opening with this kind of assault by— this kind of, like, two-pronged assault by the Phantom Troupe versus the Shadow Beasts in the desert. I mean, that alone would be fun to see, but I'm curious to see what makes these next few episodes so well-liked. 
The other thing is that we've talked a lot in the past about how I have not even begun to meet the full quota of Hunter × Hunter’s weirdies. You know, I'm still so early in the amount of weirdies, and when we talked about that, I was like, how can there be more? You know? [Keith and Sylvia laugh] How can there be more characters? And I think with the rapid introduction of the Shadow Beasts, something I had never heard about prior to this episode, [Sylvia: Yeah.] I'm beginning to see the way Togashi will introduce his freaks, which is that they'll just run up against a new gang every so often, which is great. I'm seeing, you know, the deep water of weirdos ahead of me.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, we can be firmly— we can be firmly, uh…shit. What is the word for…wow, I can't believe I'm blanking on this word. The word for, like, plot details and stuff, when someone will, you know, do this at the beginning of a story to, like, “Hey, you get fired from your job?” and it’s like, okay, this is a character who might have gotten fired from his job.
Sylvia: Uh, foreshadowing?
Keith: No, begins with an E, I think.
Sylvia: No?
Jack: Ex…uh…
Keith: Exposition. There we go.
Jack: Exposition?
Keith: Yep. Exposition.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Exposition! Okay. I feel smart right now.
Jack: We got there.
Keith: Like, we can be fully exposition into a season, like, okay, I know all the pieces. We've got the Phantom Troupe. We've got Kurapika undercover. We've got the video game stuff. Like, we're gonna do this. And then, all of a sudden, you know, 80% of the way through the episode, [Jack laughs] it’s like, “By the way, have you heard of the ten Shadow Beasts?” and then one minute later, it’s like, “Hi, it’s us, the ten Shadow Beasts.” [Dre laughs]
Jack: We've showed up. Yeah, and I think part of the reason that it’s funny, although maybe Kur— maybe, um, Togashi will— I nearly called Togashi Kurapika, which is very funny. [Keith laughs] I think Togashi is wise, but Togashi is Kurapika’s wisdom with Hisoka’s delight in freaks. I think that it is especially funny that he introduces them in groups of 8 to 15. If he shows up and he’s like, [laugh quietly] “The 41 men, each of whom are named after an element on the Periodic Table,” it loses a bit of its joy.
Keith: Wait, but the show— this whole show starts off with an introduction of 400 freaks.
Jack: Yeah, that’s true, 400 numbered freaks.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: 400 numbered freaks, yeah.
Jack: Ah, it’s great. What a delight. I think the last thing we need to talk about is the Hunterpedias. I'm gonna blitz through the first one really quickly. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: Yes.
Jack: Because the first Hunterpedia features Gon—
Keith: Oh, is there something notable about the second Hunterpedia?
Jack: Yes, it’s very sweet. The first Hunterpedia is just them introducing Basho, and Gon says, “I'm gonna write a haiku,” and then writes, by any metric, the worst haiku you have ever read.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Whether or not you are—
Sylvia: Too many syllables.
Jack: It’s not just that it’s too many syllables. It’s that it has none of the sort of, like, forms and conventions of the haiku whatsoever. It doesn't introduce an idea, introduce a reflecting idea, and then, you know, tie them together in a way that complements them. I don't remember exactly what he writes, but he just botches it completely, and Killua looks over at him and is like, “No.” [Dre laughs] It’s great. All right, let’s talk about the second one. What is the second Hunterpedia?
Sylvia: The second Hunterpedia is Baise. They explain her ability Instant Lover, where she pretends—
Dre: Oh, good.
Sylvia: They way they explain it is Gon says, “She pretends to like you and then kisses you and then is uninterested,” I think is the exact wording? [laughs]
Jack: Yeah, it’s a real misunderstanding of the power.
Sylvia: But you'll do anything you listen to her. Yeah, yeah. What’s important about this is that Killua kisses Gon and Gon gets big heart eyes and tries to kiss him again, but Killua doesn't let him.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: [sarcastic] And by the way, no one who likes Hunter × Hunter will care about this.
Sylvia: [sarcastic] No one who likes Hunter × Hunter has ever talked about this, will ever care about this.
Dre: Mm-mm.
Jack: Is that true? Do people— people talk about this a lot, right? This moment as, like, a this is Gon and Killua kissing?
Sylvia: Gon and Killua are, to many people, boyfriends, a thing that I think I've brought up before on this show.
Jack: Okay.
Keith: Very early.
Sylvia: Yeah. And I'll be honest, was a little admonished for it, and so I feel a little justified—
Jack: Okay, so—
Sylvia: —when we get a little out of character moment where it’s like, yeah, no, Killua kisses Gon, even if it’s just in the Hunterpedia.
Jack: And he gets the little heart eyes. It’s so sweet.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: I think I am, you know…I think Gon and Killua might be boyfriends. This might be a story about boyfriends, but I think at the same time, it’s— it’s not a story about boyfriends, [cross] but it’s also not not a story about boyfriends.
Sylvia: [cross] It’s also a story about besties.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Sylvia: And sometimes you kiss your bestie.
Jack: This is another—
Sylvia: Sometimes you kiss your homies on the lips.
Jack: This is another way I read the scene, right? It’s like, the Hunterpedia version is they're these papercraft characters that, like, play out the emotions and feelings of the characters in this really— they have, like, two lines before— they have to get out their feelings as quickly as possible before the episode ends or whatever. And this really felt like sometimes you tuck in the homies at night and give your besties a little kiss, to me, [Sylvia laughs] which I thought was really really sweet.
Sylvia: Yeah. It’s very cute.
Jack: Which I say that not to, you know, be like, “and you couldn't possibly read it as boyfriends” or whatever.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: But there is something kind of joyful to me about these two guys being like, “Wahoo! This is how they kiss! [smooch]”
Keith: Well, we'll see if that develops. [laughs quietly] It may or may not.
Jack: God. Is this show gay—? I mean, this show is gay. This show is extremely gay. But…
Sylvia: Uh…you know.
Keith: I'll say what I believe, which is that this show is about one boyfriend and one not-boyfriend.
Sylvia: You know?
Jack: That’s really interesting.
Sylvia: Keith. Keith, we're gonna have this conversation again in, like, 50 episodes.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: A boyfriend can be one guy.
Keith: Usually is.
Jack: [contemplatively] A boyfriend can be one guy. No, I mean a boyfriend can be a single entity. You don't need reciprocal boyfriends.
Keith: Right.
Jack: Sometimes the world falls out in that way.
Keith: And, you know, who’s who? Nobody knows. I know.
Jack: I was thinking about this. You can just google anything about Hunter × Hunter you want at any time.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Yeah. I can.
Sylvia: You can't, but we— the rest of us can.
Jack: Yeah. You can just be like, “I want to see a picture of Tonpa.”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And if I want to see—
Sylvia: Hey, that’s what I'm about to do. I'm googling Tonpa. There he is.
Jack: If I see a picture of Tonpa, I have to ask you to send me a picture of Tonpa. 
Keith: Yeah. Which, feel free.
Jack: It’s humiliating.
Keith: [laughs quietly] Feel free. I don't mind. I'll send you a picture of Tonpa.
Sylvia: Here, have this one.
Keith: I'll ask what you— what are you doing with this? [laughs] But.
Dre: Aw.
Jack: Oh, no, no. Send me a picture of happy Tonpa. 
Sylvia: Okay, okay, sorry.
Jack: This is Tonpa after he’s been all beaten up.
Sylvia: Uh, hold on. There’s a happy Tonpa. Aw, who’s a happy Tonpa? [Jack laughs]
Keith: Oh, there’s a happy Tonpa.
Jack: Yeah, there he is.
Keith: Two happy Tonpas.
Jack: But I loved this final Hunterpedia. It was great. It was also— it’s so funny the way that the Hunterpedia plays with the visual conventions of the show. Like, you know, in the Hunterpedia, they are these little papercraft figures, so it would make sense [Keith: Mm-hmm.] that Gon gets heart eyes when he has been kissed by Killua, except for the fact that you do actually get heart eyes when you've been kissed by Baise.
Keith: You do get that in the— yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: That’s canonical.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: RIP to Baise.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I mean, maybe. [cross] She gets a Hunterpedia after she dies, but.
Keith: [cross] And I guess RIP to Tocino, I guess.
Jack: Oh, he is super duper dead.
Keith: Yeah, but I just don't care as much.
Jack: Yeah, that’s true. His sideburns were pretty cool, and his Eleven Thankless Warriors.
Keith: [laughs] His Eleven…
Sylvia: R.I.P. to the big dog.
Jack: R.I.P. to the big dog.
Sylvia: Big dog Tochino.
Keith: By the way, you've seen a Thankless Warrior before.
Jack: I was just thinking this. I have seen a Thankless Warrior before. The Thankless Warriors are these weird hooded figures that I saw in one of the screenshot streams when they're playing volleyball with a gorilla.
Keith: Mm. So, that’ll…that’ll be interesting, when we get there, to talk a little bit more about Thankless Warriors.
Jack: But what are we doing next time? We're in it now.
Keith: Next time, we have a special guest. Austin Walker’s gonna be here. [Jack gasps]
Dre: Mm!
Keith: And we're watching four episodes! Four. They're wild and crazy.
Jack: What are the names of these episodes?
Keith: We've got episode 44, which is “Buildup × To A × Fierce Battle”; episode 45, “Restraint × And × Vow”; episode 46, “Chasing × And × Waiting”. Jack, if you have screenshots turned off, this is a fun screenshot, or, uh, thumbnail. 
Jack: Okay.
Keith: Actually, all— I would say don't look at all of the thumbnails, because one of them is a spoiler.
Jack: Ha.
Keith: But I think that there’s a— there’s some weird character— there’s some fun characterization in episode 46 thumbnail. And then 47, “Condition × And × Condition”.
Sylvia: Agh.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Oof.
Sylvia: We're in for it!
Keith: We're in for it.
Sylvia: Next week, I'm so excited.
Keith: We're in for it.
Sylvia: We're gonna go four hours. [laughs] 
Keith: These are gonna— I'm telling you now. These are gonna be four of the best episodes in a row of the whole thing. [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. Up to what we've seen now, this might, straight up, I think, be the strongest run of episodes [Keith: Yes.] we're about to do.
Jack: What was the—
Sylvia: Not to hype it up too much, but…
Jack: What was the last really strong—? The Zoldyck Family was great.
Sylvia: Zoldyck Family was really good. I liked the end of Heavens Arena with the Hisoka fight, with Gon and Hisoka fighting specifically.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Yeah. 
Sylvia: I thought that was a pretty high point for that arc.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: And I think the set of episodes that includes the final Hunter Exam thing. That was, like, another really good scene.
Jack: All the Hunter Exam was so much fun. 
Keith: Yeah, the Hunter Exam was great.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: The Hunter Exam had this really nice structure where every couple of episodes we shifted to a new feel.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I like that a lot. How cool.
Keith: Yeah, so I'm really excited for these next four. It’s gonna be a lot, but it’s gonna be worth it.
Jack: Yeah. Absolutely.
Keith: Anything else, before we close the book on these two episodes?
Sylvia: Uh, I got nothing. That was— I'm just, I'm so excited that we're, like, in the middle of this arc. I feel like we're, like, really getting to, like, [Keith: Oh.] the meat of Hunter × Hunter now.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, for sure. I have a couple of music notes that we sort of moved past them, and I don't want to stop just for the music, but…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I lied. I actually do have “I Ain’t Your Grandpa”, just for— just a reminder, [clip of “All I Need Is MONEY!” begins] this is the “All I Need Is MONEY!”. [music ends]
Dre: Mm, mm-hmm.
Keith: And then the alternate, "Dr. Warm-Hearted Miser". [Sylvia laughs quietly] 
[clip of "Dr. Warm-Hearted Miser" plays]
Jack: It’s in the same key, as well. It’s so funny. [laughs] 
Keith: It is. It is. It’s just, like, slinkier. The guitar is different, and it’s got, like, a different horn.
Jack: Trombones and shit. Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. And much slower, yeah. And then “I Ain’t Your Grandpa”. 
[clip of “I Ain’t Your Grandpa” begins]
Sylvia: [laughs] Da-dum, da-dum.
Keith: This is the deceitful one, [music ends] [Dre laughs] but we’re looking— like, "Dr. Warm-Hearted Miser" is I'm deceiving and we're in on a little thing together, but “I Ain’t Your Grandpa” is I'm deceiving, and it’s embarrassing, and I should be ashamed.
Dre: And I'm probably doing it to be horny.
Keith: Yeah. The other thing is we got two of the best sort of fight songs in Hunter × Hunter. There’s “Mano-a-Mano”, which we've heard before and we talked about, because they used it as a really long drum break while we're sort of montaging Gon sort of prepping for not watching the Kastro fight, but we got a lot of the, like, guitar parts here during some Phantom Troupe stuff. 
[clip of “Mano-a-Mano” plays]
Sylvia: Ugh!
Keith: Great. Great stuff.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: When they did that as a drum break, did they just play the isolated drum stems?
Keith: They just play the isolated drums, yeah.
Jack: So good.
Keith: And it’s great. Speaking of drums, there’s this amazing song called, uh…oh, the title’s so long. "As For Those Outlaws…” [Sylvia laughs] It’s too long. I can't read it.
Jack: Wait, why can't you read it? Oh, it’s scrolling slowly?
Keith: It’s just too long. No, it doesn't scroll. "As For Those Outlaws, Unrivaled Strength". This is only played a couple of times, but they play it right before Uvo slaughters all of those mafia guys. As they're amassing, it plays this.
[clip of "As For Those Outlaws, Unrivaled Strength" plays]
Jack: Great. New music. This is…
Keith: Yeah. It’s great stuff. Love that.
Jack: All the drum programming is so good. The drums in this show are fantastic.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: They use, like, bongo drums a lot.
Keith: They do.
Jack: Big heavy tycho drums and then this, you know, really sharp clipped percussive bongo drums played so well. I am so curious about how much of this soundtrack was recorded live with an orchestra and how much was virtual instruments, but it sounds brilliant.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. It’s just an unbelievable soundtrack. The way that it’s able to bounce back and forth from, like, shonen-style fight music with electric guitars and big drums to, like, you know, 300 years worth of classical music [laughs] is like, it’s very impressive.
Jack: Really, really good.
Keith: And it doesn't come across as cheesy. It’s, like, really good.
Jack: Yeah. Unless it wants to come across as cheesy in “Warm-Hearted Miser” or whatever.
Keith: And then it sort of does, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: All right. Anything that we want to plug before we bounce? The next week’s episodes, you know, I've gotta— I haven't said this in a while. If you're listening to the show but not watching along, you should watch along.
Dre: You should watch.
Sylvia: yeah.
Keith: It’s just really good. [Jack laughs] It’s really good. You should watch along. And if you haven't taken the opportunity to go to Apple Podcasts and rate the show—and review the show; very important—then I would ask you to do that. And if you want to check out my other show Run Button, you can go to youtube.com/runbutton and watch the Sonic Superstars let’s play that we just did, where we stopped in the middle of it to play Sonic 4 and Sonic Mania, because Sonic Superstars is not very good. 
Jack: [laughs] Okay.
Keith: Anybody else want to plug anything?
Sylvia: Uh, yeah. You should go to the patreon.com/friendsatthetable or friends underscore— or friendsatthetable— friends_table patreon, friendsatthetable.cash. At the time of recording, we are also making a Slow Knife game, playing a Slow Knife game with three out of four of the people who are on this podcast right now. Sorry, Jack, you're— we got Art in instead of you.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Ugh.
Sylvia: But, you know. 
Keith: Oh.
Sylvia: It’s coming along very well, and you should listen to it.
Keith: That first episode, I don't know if it’s out yet.
Sylvia: It’s not out— I mean, I don't know—
Keith: Oh, by the time this is out, that’ll be out.
Sylvia: By the time this is out, I don't know. Yeah, I figure.
Keith: This will be out in two months, so that’ll definitely be out, I think.
Sylvia: Unless I really fuck up. Yeah, I'm hosting that.
Jack: You're not gonna really fuck up. You're doing great.
Sylvia: Nah, it’s gonna be fine. It’s going well. I'm very excited to get back to it.
Keith: Yeah, very excited. We're doing it tomorrow, right?
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Keith: Yeah. 
Sylvia: See you then.
Keith: So, I'm very— [Sylvia laughs] Worth the price of admission just to listen to that. I mean, that was— it’s gonna be really good. We could not stop doing worldbuilding stuff for the first episode. It was just nonstop. 
Sylvia: Yep.
Keith: It was a blast. One of my favorite episodes of worldbuilding stuff that I've ever done. So, tune in for that, for sure. Friendsatthetable.cash. Is that it?
Jack: I don't have anything to plug.
Sylvia: That’s it for me.
Keith: Okay.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: You don't want want to plug notquitereal.bandcamp.com?
Sylvia: Notquitereal.bandcamp.com! 
Jack: Oh, I plugged that at the beginning.
Sylvia: Yeah, we're plugging it again.
Keith: Plugging it again.
Jack: I suppose the thing that I'm going to choose to plug here is I know that we have some listeners who are listening to Media Club Plus but haven't listened to Friends at the Table. Friends at the Table rules, and we have two really cool places to jump on if you would be interested in jumping on. We have PARTIZAN, a story of a burgeoning revolution on a holy moon. You can jump into it without having listened to any of our previous shows. You get to meet all sorts of cool characters: a war criminal, a supersoldier, a pirate, an ancient sort of advisor priest, the worst teenage girl in the universe; the works. You can also listen to Sangfielle, which is a horror season that we have made, set in a kind of ruined dust bowl called Sangfielle. It used to be a series of vineyards and greenery, but something very wrong happened there, and it all sort of fell apart in a great panic. 
Both of these shows are great to jump into if you've never listened to Friends at the Table before, if you have been interested in jumping in. They are full of cool music, cool discoveries, weird surprises, tangents about animals. [“The Boy in Green” by Jack de Quidt begins] It’s a really, really great show, and if you have been looking for the moment to join us, now is the time.
[song plays out]