The Road to PALISADE 09: Lancer Pt. 2
Transcriber: Anachilles#0191 (Live at the Table version); thedreadbiter (recap and edits)
AUSTIN: The Road to PALISADE is a show about war, politics, religion, revolutionary violence, and the many consequences thereof. For a full list of content warnings, please check the episode description.
DRE (as KALIOPE): I appreciate you all coming here. I wish it were under better circumstances, but it is quickly going to be time for us to leave Harborview.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Leave? We just got here.
DRE (as KALIOPE): [SIGHS] I know.
[“Permanent Peace” by Jack de Quidt starts playing]
DRE (as ZEKE): My partner, Deanthe, they, while I was cataloging and studying what was there, Deanthe began translating the records, and they basically discovered the way we used to exist, the way that we used to be as a people. We used to have the ability to have powers granted to us.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Uh-huh.
SYLVI (as ZARK): Like superhero stuff?
[Cut]
DRE (as KALIOPE): The short version is that unfortunately, the Pact, and specifically Columnar, already got their hands on this last night.
JACK (as MARTILLA): What, they just loaded it into ships and took it away? I don’t see why this means we need to leave.
DRE (as KALIOPE): [SIGHS] When Zeke and Deanthe brought their discoveries to me, I was worried that Columnar and the Pact would want to take this, take advantage of this and use it for their war that they’re having. And so I tried to contact some people. Are you familiar with Millenium Break?
JACK (as MARTILLA): Traitors.
DRE (as KALIOPE): They promised safe passage if we ever needed it, and it appears that now we need it.
[Cut]
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): You want a big and a small? Hm? Or a big and a big, and a small and a small?
KEITH (as TEASEL): I like big and a big and a small and a small.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): A big and a big and a small and a small.
KEITH (as TEASEL): Official lingo.
JACK (as MARTILLA): What are you talking about? Stay off the comms if you don’t have something important to add.
[DRE and KEITH laugh]
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Alright, Pact, alright.
[Cut]
DRE (as INDUCTOR PILOT): This is Columnar unit Harrow Gaze, please identify yourself or we will open fire.
JACK (as MARTILLA): This is Pact Specialist Häske. I think there’s been some sort of a misunderstanding. Stand down.
DRE (as HARROW GAZE): We will not stand down. You will stand down. I am reading at least two heat signatures. I need both of you to power down your mechs immediately.
[“Permanent Peace” concludes]
DRE: All right. So, we are back, continuing our Road to Palisade game of Lancer. Uh, who wants to fill us in and remind us of what happened so far in our first gameplay? And I can fill in any, any gaps that we might have. Because it has been about a week since we played.
JACK: So...
SYLVIA: I think — okay, go ahead Jack.
JACK: No, go on, Sylvi.
SYLVIA: Oh, okay! Uh, so, the way I remember it is that, uh, we were all sort of based around this little settlement that I don't remember the name of.
AUSTIN: Saboria is the planet, Harborview is the city, according to my notes?
SYLVIA: Harborview.
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: Okay. 
SYLVIA: And, while, uh, a sort of scientist there was doing some excavating that my character helped them with, through explosive means, uh, they uncovered sort of old Hyphan... uh, I think it was described as a necropolis —
AUSTIN: Mm-hm.
SYLVIA: In the mountains near Harborview, and that the, uh, it was the, the Curtain... Curtain. It was the Curtain coming for it, or was —
AUSTIN: The Pact coming, because we're in —
SYLVIA: Goddammit.
AUSTIN: Pact space, we're in Columnar territory.
DRE: Yeah
SYLVIA: Right.
DRE: Like Columnar specifically, yeah.
JACK: Quote/unquote, our own army.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
JACK: Is coming to take the stuff.
SYLVIA: Yeah. And I think specifically your character, Jack, is like the one most affiliated with the uh, we just said it, the Pact. The Pact right now. I'm going to keep it straight, I swear. By the time we get into the season proper —
AUSTIN: Yeah, exactly.
SYLVIA: I’m going to, it'll be second nature.
AUSTIN: It'll be easy. Yes.
SYLVIA: Uh... there was... we got sort of, uh, word of some forces en route, and that there were some hostages — I don't know if they were hostages or just caught in a fire zone, now that I think about it. But we had a rescue to do, and instead of rescuing them, we just [chuckling] blew everything up.
DRE: Yep. So far, anyway.
SYLVIA: Not every — we blew the bad guys up.
AUSTIN: Yeah, we blew up the bad guys.
DRE: Yeah. 
SYLVIA: Yeah.
JACK: If I understand correctly, the Pact have sort of kidnapped these three Hyphan researchers, believing that they are sort of the key to unlocking the Strand technology in the bones, is that right, Dre?
DRE: Uh, yes. I mean, specifically, you were told by, uh, the researcher that these Hypha were, they were called the Tress, and are like the next evolution of strati.
JACK: Okay.
SYLVIA: Oh, okay.
AUSTIN: Yes. Yeah.
SYLVIA: I knew they were Strati, I just didn't realize they were like, strati 2.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah, you kind of talked about them as being like, they figured out a way to do the ancient Hyphan thing, but, but synthetically or something, right?
DRE: Uh, I don't think it's necessarily synthetically, but it's like, it's like, it's more... I'm trying to remember if we had explicitly talked about what they did differently.
AUSTIN: I don't think we talked about specific —
KEITH: No. The impression I got was that they figured out how to like force it.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I think, I think we mostly got vibes and not specifics.
DRE: Yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: Because I remember, we were not characters who were going to be asking for specifics, is the real thing. Classic Friends at the Table character group.
SYLVIA: Yes, this is true.
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: I, I remember being like, my character doesn't know anything about this, so...
AUSTIN: Right, exactly. Exactly.
JACK: But it's clear that the Curtain. Sorry, fuckin hell, that the Pact are —
SYLVIA: [laughing]
KEITH: We all just love the Curtain.
AUSTIN: We do.
JACK: The Pact are prepared to, uh, extract from these people that they have taken, information that might swing the war in their way?
AUSTIN: Or even more than that, they're fundamentally like, the way that the Mayor, who's named — is Deanthe the mayor, or is Zeke the mayor? Is it —
SYLVIA: I think we elected a new one last time.
JACK: It's... it's someone else.
DRE: We did. Yes, it is now, uh, it is now Keith's character.
AUSTIN: Oh, it's Keith's character, right, sorry about that.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: That's mayor, — Mayor mayor.
KEITH: The mayor mayor.
AUSTIN: Mayor mayor.
DRE: Uh, Kaliope was the mayor.
AUSTIN: Kaliope was the mayor. Did not have Kaliope in the notes.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Uh, uh, all right, well I just shouldn't put that down next to mayor, I need to put that down next to ex-mayor. Uh, but, but they told us that... I don't remember Kaliope's pronouns.
DRE: Uh, she.
AUSTIN: She/her? Okay.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: So, she told us that they, in fact, came last night and took people, and that like more people, this whole town was like, going to be put to the torch, effectively, and wiped off the map to cover this up or to... you know, because of our — oh, because she called out to Millennium Break to be like, “yo, we need to get, I need to get help out here.” And because she did that —
SYLVIA: Right.
AUSTIN: We now, Harborview is now considered city non grata, effectively. So, and then we went, we, we walked the rails. We tracked down their train that had the people on it, and we began to find the people, but then we, we in fact mostly just kicked ass instead.
DRE: It's true.
AUSTIN: And if I remember right, when we left off, we kind of knocked out all of the folks who were there already, there were like 5 different types of mechs there.
DRE: I think there was like one, one mech still left standing from the original crew. [laughing]
AUSTIN: Yes, I think that that's right. Uh, but then a new —
KEITH: Yeah, I think there's one gumdrop left.
AUSTIN: [chuckles] There's one gumdrop left. And then, new people were showing up, and we kind of realized, “oh, we've only really checked one zone.” So we have like 3 more zones to potentially check, and then... the goal is just to extract, though.
KEITH: Uh, you checked the second one right at the end, you checked zone C, I think.
DRE: [negative] Uh-uh.
AUSTIN: I don’t think that that's true.
KEITH: No?
AUSTIN: No, I don't know, I did not do that.
KEITH: I distinctly remember near the end, you like —
AUSTIN: Oh, I yelled, yes.
KEITH: You, like, calling names.
AUSTIN: Yes, I did that. But that was not using the —
KEITH: Oh, that was just fun.
AUSTIN: That was just me, that was a characterization, that was me being like —
KEITH: Okay, okay.
AUSTIN: Hey... here's me, here's my name. Is anyone there?
KEITH: Okay. So you did call for them, it just wasn't real. It just was not —
AUSTIN: Right, yes. I didn't scan for them.
DRE: Yeah, it was not answered.
AUSTIN: Yes, it was not answered, exactly.
DRE: Yeah. Uh, I'm trying think of anything. I think the only other character that you've been introduced to that we didn't mention was, uh, well, Austin, you said their name. Uh...
AUSTIN: Oh, is this, uh...
DRE: Deanthe, who is the —
AUSTIN: Deanthe.
DRE: The partner of Zeke. Zeke was the, the scientist, and Deanthe is his partner.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: And Deanthe was the one who did a lot of the research into, specifically, the, the Chorus Bond and strati and things like that.
AUSTIN: Right. And they, were they the ones who were like looking over this fight from a hill nearby?
DRE: Yes.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: They're the one that have like the, the cool like, witch mech. Basically, they are there, but they are on standby until you find the, uh, the people.
AUSTIN: The Tress, who are Dirwin, Elaina, and Stas. You gave us their names.
DRE: Stas. Yep. Uh...
SYLVIA: Pretty — Dirwit, how could I forget a name like Dirwit?
AUSTIN: Dirwin, thank you.
SYLVIA: Dirwin? Okay, sorry. I misheard. I heard Dirwit. Dirwit's his brother. Their brother? I don't know.
AUSTIN: [laughing]
DRE: Okay. 
AUSTIN: I think we're good.
SYLVIA: Kermit with a W.
AUSTIN: Right.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: Yeah, so where we left off was basically, there is like a ridge to the upper, like on this map, anyway, I don't know what directions truly are, right? But like, in the northwest of this map, there is an overlooking bridge, and kind of breaking out through the tree line was a, a pretty big group of reinforcements.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
KEITH: Uh, I think we're all on the galaxy map, still.
AUSTIN: We are.
DRE: Oop. Here, I'll pull you over. Actually... and I think I can turn this on so that you all can navigate to it, as well.
SYLVIA: Should we, really quick, go through like broad strokes character stuff, or just to catch people back up?
DRE: Sure!
SYLVIA: I don't know how long these are going to be in between airing.
AUSTIN: Uh... who are you?
SYLVIA: So, I am playing Zark Vapor, call sign Banjax. Uh... pronouns are he/they. He is a, uh, I described him as being an Ashen with, uh... Ashen is just the name for Hyphan now, right? In this period of history, right?
AUSTIN: Yeah, we've talked a little bit about, like, there are definitely — so, they became Ashen because of some events back in our Dialect game, uh, and the kind of knock-on after that.
SYLVIA: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: We've talked about there being Ashen who now identify as Hyphan — or as Hypha — because of, reclaiming this identity and this cultural history that was cut off from them by, by the Principality. So, like, I think, I think in a real way it's a political decision for the character. Like, do you identify as Ashen? And, not in a way to like, take anything away from people who are just like, “yeah, I'm Ashen.” But like, it's a choice to decide, “I am Hyphan.” You know?
SYLVIA: Yeah. I don't think Zark's the type to have ever thought about it. Because what Zark mostly thinks about is explosives. So, Zark Vapor's deal is that they are a mechanic who likes figuring out how things break, particularly through explosive means. I described him as being a Hypha with the equivalent of what a push-broom mustache would be, which is horns shaped like those ergonomic handlebars that bike cyclists use, the ones that sort of curve down. Uh, but since recording, I've decided he also just has a push-broom mustache.
AUSTIN: Good.
KEITH: [laughing]
SYLVIA: You can figure out how that works, it's not on me.
AUSTIN: Good. Good.
SYLVIA: Uh, they, they pilot the Ill Portent, which is a mech designed to have as many missile launchers grafted onto it as possible, and by designed, I mean, it was not intended to have this many missiles on it... it just does.
KEITH and AUSTIN: [chuckling]
SYLVIA: Uh, yeah. I think that about covers it.
AUSTIN: I am playing, uh, Narmine Te’ketch. But Ketch is my callsign. I was a former criminal who, uh... decided I wanted to, not retire, I just wanted to get out of the life. Uh, and so when I heard about Harborview and Saporia I was like, yeah, I'm going to go there. And so I did, and became a whaler, a sort of — getting my big whaling mech. And go out there and hunt big space fish. I know whales aren't fish, but I don't know if I'm — maybe I go in space and do it, I don't know. And so my whole design is very much about getting in close and swinging around big swords, and shooting harpoons to grapple things and pull them to me. And doing a good job of that so far, I think.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: You know. Very cynical and self-motivated.
JACK: Uh, I am playing, uh... Martilla Häske. I am a, uh, Pact artillery specialist, with a background as a, as a mechanic and as a squad leader. I was roped into this mission, and then, when it went south and shots started being exchanged, realized that a court-martial and lengthy prison sentence, at best, awaited me, if I didn't help clean up the situation. And by clean up, I mean remove as many people who could report this to the Pact as possible.
AUSTIN: [chuckles]
DRE: Mm-hm. Mm-hm.
SYLVIA: [giggling]
JACK: Uh, I am an older woman, uh, who is very impatient, and pilots an extremely large, extremely slow heavy artillery mech called Under the Radar.
KEITH: Uh, my character's name is Teasel Turner. He is a, uh... uh, he's an entertainer, I guess?
DRE: Mayor.
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Yeah.
DRE: He is the mayor.
AUSTIN: He is a candidate for mayor, yeah, he's —
KEITH: He's a candidate for mayor, uh... he's thrown his hat —
JACK: [chuckling] As opposed to gubernatorial.
KEITH: He's thrown his hat in the ring for mayor of whatever the next, uh, town is that we all move to.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: After we get out of this bad situation. But, before this, before today, when I realized that I was about to be mayor if we lived through this, I, uh, made money by basically just like, renting my mech out for different things, like... uh, shooting clay pigeons and letting kids ride on it at birthday parties. Uh... uh, my mech is called the Dressage, and it is a, uh, six-legged, uh, very fast nightmare sniper. Uh... and, uh, it's, hasn't, I haven't shown that yet. We have not seen that work yet.
AUSTIN: No, you sniped some stuff, you sniped the —
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: I did snipe one thing, but I have only gotten hit —
AUSTIN: Some TVs.
JACK: You're an extremely evasive character.
KEITH: I feel like every mech —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: Who has gotten hit by everybody.
KEITH: Every mech that has made an attack, has made it on me, successfully.
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Despite your very high evasion. But we've got to get you repaired. That's, you're in a place where we're like, we've got to get you healed up.
KEITH: Yeah, I think that, so, I —
AUSTIN: Because you're in a bad way, if I recall.
KEITH: Right, I think that my next —
DRE: [disagreeing] Eh...
KEITH: I can't remember if my next turn is —
AUSTIN: Yeah, I do not remember where we were.
KEITH: Is my braced turn, where I —
AUSTIN: Oh, right...
KEITH: Or if I already did that.
DRE: No. No. You already took it, you already took it.
AUSTIN: Okay.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Because I remember, you took your braced turn. That's when you shot, uh, the mech that was on the top of the tower.
AUSTIN: Yes.
KEITH: Right, yes, okay. So, I, I have an idea for how to get a few things in a row done on my next turn, so...
DRE: Well, so we pick up at the start of a new round of combat. Uh, and you all, I mean, basically get to pick who goes first, so...
AUSTIN: Just to reorient the listener one more time, we... we are on a map that's taller than it is wide, and about halfway — going from southwest to northeast is one big, long train, and that is where one of the three objective zones we need to check are. And that's also as far north as we have pushed. Kind of like, the middle of the map. Keith and I are on this train in the middle. Sorry, Mayor and I are on this train [chuckles]
KEITH: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: In the middle. Zark, callsign Banjax, and Martilla, callsign Pact, are to the south, near objective B. Uh, uh, and everybody else who wants to kill us is way to the north. Uh, not as far north as I wish. I wish they were all even further north somehow.
KEITH: There's a little bit, there's a little bit of a guy, a little bit not this far north.
AUSTIN: Yes. Yes. Yeah. There's one guy kind of down on our tier, then there's a bunch of, there's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, incoming units [chuckling nervously] from the north, which is scary to meeee.
KEITH: There is, I do want to say, just, I want to get it out there, we've got the grandpa gumdrop there. He's very big. I think that that —
JACK: Is that grandpa?
AUSTIN: Yeah, that's, that's their grandpa.
KEITH: That's their grandpa.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: I don't know what that thing is, but it's terrifying to me.
KEITH: It's terrifying, but you know —
AUSTIN: It's, it's Jack-sized.
KEITH: What's more terrifying to me? Is this green thing.
DRE: It's not Jack-sized.
AUSTIN: Oh, it's not? Is that only a 2? Oh, that's only a size 2.
DRE: It's only a 2.
JACK: Oh yeah, that green witch —
SYLVIA: [unintelligible]
AUSTIN: Yeah, that's Zark-sized.
DRE: That's Zark-sized.
AUSTIN: And then, yeah, there's a green witch mech —
KEITH: I don't want to, yeah, I think I need —
AUSTIN: We gotta stay away.
KEITH: I maybe, I think maybe, and this is pure speculation, I'm more afraid of the green thing than the grandpa gumdrop. I don't know what it is about this green thing, but it looks like —
AUSTIN: It's the green.
KEITH: It could kill me. It's the green.
AUSTIN: Yeah, 100 percent.
DRE: So, while y'all are talking about being scared of the, of these things, I'm pulling open their character sheets for...
AUSTIN: Good. Good.
DRE: [chuckling] For anyone that's watching the video to look.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
DRE: And all the normal stuff they can do, it's fine.
SYLVIA: Okay, so they're super weak... uh...
DRE: Uh-huh!
JACK: Just like paper.
SYLVIA: Did we decide on who was going to go first? Sorry, I —
AUSTIN: We did not.
SYLVIA: I do have a thing that can sort of start this with a bang, no pun intended.
JACK: Shit, okay.
KEITH: My thing was going to be scanning for objective C, to maybe see if we can get the witch in, because —
SYLVIA: If you — you know what? We should probably do the objective first before I do my big explosives. [laughing]
JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: Uh, how much heat do I have to take to, in one go, scan, uh, which I think is, is not a full action, right?
AUSTIN: It is a full action.
KEITH: It is a full action.
DRE: It is a — yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: Okay. So, this, so, and what about repairing, that's also a full action?
DRE: It is also a full action. So, there is no, you can —
AUSTIN: Ugh, oh-ho...
DRE: There's no way to take two full actions, unfortunately. So if you boosted, and took heat by boosting — well, it's not boosting. It's called overcharging, I think, sorry, overcharging.
KEITH: Right, yeah, yeah, yeah.
DRE: Boosting is a different thing. Uh...
KEITH: It's a thing you can do —
DRE: You can do, you can do an extra quick action, you cannot do a full action.
KEITH: Okay.
AUSTIN: And repair, what's the repair action? What is that?
KEITH: That's another full.
DRE: Yeah! I'm going to pull up my mech actions –
AUSTIN: I guess we have that sheet.
DRE: Just to make sure I get it right.
AUSTIN: Yeah, we have that sheet.
DRE: Yeah. Uh, so, a full action, is actually, it is called stabilize.
AUSTIN: Right.
DRE: You can use 1 repair to regain HP, or clear heat. And then you can also choose one of the following. You can reload, you can clear a condition, or you can clear an ally's condition, or you can also clear burn, which is a specific type of damage that you all haven't encountered.
AUSTIN: You could check and then move into a safer place.
DRE: Yeah, yeah. Moving is not one of your like, actions.
KEITH: Okay. Okay. Uh... so then, I'm going to... I don't want that.
DRE: That's right, because you still have full structure, so yeah, repairing would be a thing that is useful for you.
KEITH: Yes. I have full structure. I saved myself...
DRE: I should say, technically, what that move is called stabilizing, not repairing, right?
AUSTIN: Right.
DRE: Repairing is a different thing.
AUSTIN: Right, right. 
DRE: But —
AUSTIN: But you're using a repair, by stabilizing.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Yeah. Okay.
AUSTIN: Repair is like a resource that we have a certain number of, right?
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: So I can, so I can search, move, and shoot, all in one move.
DRE: If you took heat, yes.
KEITH: If I took one heat to do that. Okay. I'm going to do that.
DRE: Yeah, because you haven't overcharged yet, so your first overcharge is, is 1 heat.
KEITH: And then I'm going to repair after that, in my next, in my next turn.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah.
KEITH: Yeah, let's do, let's do that. Let's search objective C.
DRE: Okay.
KEITH: What do I have to do, to do that?
DRE: Well, so, this is kind of more of like a, all you have to do is basically tell me you're doing it. But I'm curious as to what sort of systems do you think the Dressage has, as far as like, scanning and things like that? Because the Dressage does have, do you have the highest sensors? Because your sensors is 20, which is —
KEITH: I have 20.
DRE: Which is really high.
SYLVIA: Oh, wow. Probably.
DRE: Right? So like, what does the Dressage's suite of sensors look like?
KEITH: So, I actually have a couple different things here. The first and like, lowest-tech is that, Teasel has a personal drone. So like, I could send my drone cam —
DRE: Mmm, okay. Oh yeah!
KEITH: Into the train, to look in the train.
SYLVIA: Oh, shit!
AUSTIN: That's fun.
DRE: That's awesome.
AUSTIN: Let's do that.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah, okay.
KEITH: Great. So I don't even have to talk about my other two cooler things. That's — save those.
SYLVIA: [cackling]
DRE: I really like that image, too.
KEITH: No, no, they're not actually cooler. I do genuinely think that the personal drone is cooler than my like, tracking dart that I have.
DRE: Yeah. I like the image, too, because when, when, uh, when the Captain killed the first kind of big bad mech, Austin, you described it as like, very Ironblooded Orphans, like —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Hacking him down with your sword like into the train itself.
AUSTIN: I did do that.
DRE: So I like the image of like, as that mech is like, burning, this little drone just kind of —
AUSTIN: [laughing]
DRE: Flits in through this big hole [laughing]
AUSTIN: [laughing] I hope no one was in there that I needed to protect.
JACK: [laughing]
DRE: Well, so here's the thing. Turns out there is, but, you know —
AUSTIN: Fuck!
DRE: We're going to say that they weren't in the area where you blew up a train car.
AUSTIN: Okay. Good. Good good good.
DRE: Uh, because yeah, I think in there, there is just a very kind of, like... a very [sighs] what is it — austere, sterile-looking train car, I think, where like, it is basically just like a bunch of boxes, presumably, where those artifacts that the Columnar took, and then within, like kind of — I'm thinking of like, I don't remember if this was the first or the second X-men movie, but where they break the, the bad-guy mutants out of the semi-truck?
AUSTIN: Yeah, I don't —
DRE: Does anybody know what I'm talking about?
SYLVIA: Oh, I do know the scene you're talking about, but I also don't know which one it's in.
DRE: Uh, and they've got Magneto in a special, like, plastic truck for him, right?
AUSTIN: Yeah, that's 2, I think.
DRE: Okay. I'm thinking of that. I’m thinking of that.
AUSTIN: Because he gets put in that at the end of 1.
DRE: Yeah. But, yeah. So the 3 Tress are in here. Uh, and I think —
JACK: Oh, shit. We got all three.
DRE: Yeah, yeah. So, I think when they see the drone come in, one of them lifts, lifts his head, uh, let's see, which one of the 3 do I want? Uh, and just kind of like starts waving at the drone to, to get your attention.
KEITH: Uh... I think, you know, the drone sort of beeps in recognition, and I'm getting this like, feed, right, into the Dressage. And do, I don't know, can I crawl into the train with my mech to get them out? Or do you think I just extend one of my weird long front legs?
DRE: [laughing] Well, so, I don't think you need to necessarily do that. Because I mean, you can get out of your mech, but that is, that is a whole thing. And specifically, Deanthe is here to kind of be the person that recovers them.
KEITH: Oh, okay, great.
DRE: They are here specifically to do that. So, what I will do is, I will add them to the combat tracker.
AUSTIN: Oh, great.
DRE: Uh... and so now that you know where these folks are, your mission is now kind of basically to cover Deanthe while they go recover them, and then get out of here.
AUSTIN: Do they have to also get to that northeast point?
DRE: Uh-uh, no.
AUSTIN: Okay, they have to go somewhere — that's good, because the north seems scary to me.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. No, and you all —
KEITH: Does this —
DRE: Don't have to go there to finish this mission, either. Uh... that was more —
KEITH: Oh, okay. The fucking sand crawler doesn't have to make it over there?
DRE: No. In case something went bad, that was like your fallback escape point, but —
AUSTIN: Gotcha. How do, how do we get away? Do we have to win this fight to win this mission?
DRE: No, no.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: Basically, uh, basically, the... the victory conditions for this are basically, you have found the person, and now it is just, cover —
AUSTIN: Get them out.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Gotcha.
DRE: So, cover Deanthe while she — while they get them out.
KEITH: Okay. I can do that.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: So, they're added to the, the combat. I still have a movement and a quick action.
DRE: Yes. Yeah.
KEITH: Uh, and so, what I'm going to do is...
DRE: Did you already take the heat that you needed to take?
KEITH: Uh, I actually don't need to take heat, because I'm not, I'm not... I was going to take heat in order to like search and repair. But since I can't do that with heat, I'm just doing —
DRE: Right, but if you're wanting to shoot, you will need to take heat.
KEITH: Oh, okay. Yeah, I'll still, then I'll still do that.
DRE: Okay. That will put you at full heat.
KEITH: Are you sure?
DRE: You're at 6 out of 7, it says.
KEITH: Why am I at 6 out of 7? I didn't do anything to take more heat.
DRE: Uh, did you... I don't know if you remember this, since it has been a week, but do you remember if you had it at 7 out of 7 to start?
KEITH: Uh... no, because I used my, I used my DMR, which gives me one heat, twice.
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: And you overkilled on it, which produces extra heat when you roll a 1, and you —
DRE: Oh yeah.
KEITH: Oh, no, I don't think I did overheat on it.
AUSTIN: I am looking at it. Scroll up. Here's what happened — I can tell you exactly what happened, Keith.
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: You roll, you roll 2D6 on your, uh, or maybe it's not exactly, I don't remember — yeah, it's 2D6. On your, uh, DMR, and if you roll a 1 —
KEITH: Oh yeah, I see that.
AUSTIN: You get a heat and you reroll. And you rolled three 1s in a row. [chuckling] So that gave you 3 more heat.
DRE: Oh yeah, that'll do it.
KEITH: Oh! And it just didn't really alert me in a way where I noticed that that happened.
AUSTIN: Yeah, it says overkill, 3. But if you don't know what means, how would you know what that means, you know?
DRE: Right. Yeah.
KEITH: Right.
AUSTIN: So that —
KEITH: Right, okay —
DRE: Oh yeah, here it is.
KEITH: So I rolled a 1, then it automatically rerolled a 1, then it automatically rerolled a 1.
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Uh-huh.
DRE: Yep.
KEITH: Okay. Well then, yeah. So I have 6 heat, so I'm not going to attack, and I'm just going to, uh, run and hide.
AUSTIN: Does heat not naturally come down? It only comes down if you stabilize?
DRE: Mm-hm. Yep. Or unless, I mean, you know, some, you can get like special moves and stuff that will —
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, sure, but...
KEITH: I cannot believe that! That overkill really fucked me.
DRE: [laughing] Overkill is, so, just to remind folks who are listening, the way overkill works, it is a tag on one of the weapons that basically states, whenever you roll a 1 on the weapon die, you get to reroll it — well, not you get to, you have to reroll it.
AUSTIN: You have to reroll it.
DRE: So, it is great, because it means that you will never do minimum damage. But then, when you roll three 1s in a row... [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Yeah, and it's not like you get to keep that damage.
KEITH: Yeah, that's extremely bad luck. Yeah.
AUSTIN: It's not like you get 1, plus, then the next thing you roll.
DRE: Yep. Yeah.
KEITH: Right. Yeah. Just extremely bad luck —
AUSTIN: The result was —
KEITH: That I didn't realize happened.
AUSTIN: Right. The result was that you did blow up this Screw, which was great, but...
KEITH: Yeah. Yeah.
AUSTIN: Yikes.
KEITH: And I will say, be careful that there's another fucking Screw there that's going to make us attack each other again, that would suck.
AUSTIN: I know, I know.
DRE: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Uh, Dre, can you move me back over to the map? I had to reload my screen.
DRE: Oh, sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
KEITH: Okay, so I'm not going to do my, I'm just going to move, then, is what I'm going to do.
DRE: Okay.
KEITH: Uh, and I can do that... I'm actually going to make use of, uh...
AUSTIN: Oh.
KEITH: Cover. Under the — I'm going to be under the radar. [chuckling]
DRE: Uh-huh. Yep.
AUSTIN and SYLVIA: [laughing]
JACK: Welcome.
DRE: And yeah, so, one of the things about Under the Radar is, it is literally so big, that anyone that is adjacent to it gets full cover, or hard cover.
SYLVIA: Damn.
KEITH: Uh, does this, actually, does this count as adjacent, also?
AUSTIN: That's adjacent.
DRE: Uh... that's adjacent.
KEITH: I guess it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. I was like, —
DRE: Well...
KEITH: I could switch to objective B, but I don't have to, because...
AUSTIN: Wait, you — in fact, I don't think you can be where you are.
DRE: Yeah, you cannot be inside of —
AUSTIN: Because that is under the radar.
DRE: Yeah, that's literally in their space because of how big they are. [laughing]
KEITH: Oh. Okay. My bad. So I'll go back to, I was literally 6 away. So I'll go back to here, which is where I was, I think. And, so, make sure that I'm —
AUSTIN: Yeah, that seems...
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
KEITH: Is that, that's correct, there?
DRE: Oh yeah, that's fine. Yeah, totally.
KEITH: Okay. I just wanted to make sure that I wasn't accidentally moving more spaces than I was allowed to. So I'm still in cover. I'm in the hard cover of Under the Radar. I'm in the soft cover of the train.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Love it.
KEITH: Okay.
JACK: You know when you're in a building, and you hear birds walking on the roof, like seagulls on a glass roof? Martilla, inside Under the Radar —
SYLVIA: [laughing]
JACK: Hears the little pinging sounds of, you know, of Dressage scuttling on the side of the mech.
KEITH: Here's — yeah, here's a question. I do have those mag clamps. Can't I just be...
JACK: You can't be, I think we could narrativize it that you are clinging to the side of the mech, but I think if you step into the space —
DRE: Oh, I love that.
JACK: It's like, uh, it's, it's like, we would be zed-fighting, if this was a video game.
KEITH: Right, okay.
SYVLIA: God.
DRE: But I do love the image of —
AUSTIN: It's so funny.
DRE: The Dressage like, scrambling over here and taking a big hop into the air and just latching onto the side of —
KEITH: I can literally, yeah, I can just use this —
DRE: Under the Radar [laughing].
KEITH: As like a sniping, this like leg, I can just sit on his leg.
JACK: As a mobile cover point? Well, joke's on you, because I'm not moving ever again. Ever.
Everyone:        [laughing]
DRE: All right. Uh... so. That will be the Dressage's turn. Uh, I think I, I think I narrated it as the, as the, what you all would call the bubble — the gumdrop?
AUSTIN: Gumdrop.
DRE: Gumdrop.
KEITH: Gumdrop.
DRE: Gumdrop granddad.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
DRE: Uh... it actually is like, it has like a siren coming off of it.
JACK: Jesus.
AUSTIN: Ugh, I hate it. Hate it.
DRE: Yeah, so let's, let's see. What are your sensors?
AUSTIN: Don't look at mine, just pretend mine are good.
KEITH: Mine's 20.
SYLVIA: Mine's 15 —
DRE: Oh, no, I'm talking about, about, this one's sensors. Oh yeah, that's all fine. Uh...
KEITH: I don't like it when it's fine.
AUSTIN: I hate it. I hate it when it's fine, actually.
KEITH: I don't like it when Dre thinks it's fine.
DRE: [laughs] Let me just... just out of fairness here... [rolls dice] okay. Uh...
SYLVIA: I love, I still love the question mark dice. I know we commented on it last time.
JACK: What did they roll? What could it be?
SYLVIA: It's so much fun!
JACK: I'll never tell.
DRE: Oop, oop, oop!
SYLVIA: [cackling]
KEITH: [laughing] Is it a gift?
SYLVIA: [laughing] 
DRE: God. Oh, that's fun. Okay —
KEITH: We can see —
SYLVIA: We can see you measuring things.
AUSTIN: No, that was me.
SYLVIA: We, oh, okay.
DRE: But I was also measuring things earlier.
SYLVIA: I was scared.
AUSTIN: Okay, yes. That was me, because I'm worried about a thing. But don't worry about it.
DRE: So yeah, Martilla, that, that siren that you heard earlier starts echoing inside of your cockpit.
JACK: Who?
DRE: And then, I can't remember, you don't have any sort of like, AI or anything in your mech, do you? No, I don't see anything in like your talents or your systems or anything.
JACK: Who, me?
DRE: Uh, yeah. I don't think — yeah, it's just you, just you.
JACK: Oh.
DRE: Uh... so, what does your, like, what does your heads-up display inside of your mech look like?
JACK: [chuckling] It's a, it's a big bulletproof window — it's a big —
SYLVIA: [laughing]
JACK: It's a big glass window.
DRE: Do you have like, any screens at all?
JACK: Uh, the, the, you know when, so, something that I've been picturing for this a lot, is, you know, uh, heavy vehicles like JCB diggers, or those massive trucks that have the lifts on the back so people can put goods in and out, you know how they often have like, little remote controls on a wire, that the person standing next to the truck is like, punching the big red buttons on to move the lifts up and down and things? I picture the inside of Under the Radar just sort of being like, operating a JCB or something.
DRE: Gotcha. Okay. Uh... boy, I'm, I'm trying to picture of what this looks like for you, then. Uh... I think, it just gets incredibly hot, inside of your cockpit.
JACK: [chuckling]
DRE: Because, what this virus does is, first it does 5 energy damage to you.
JACK: Okey-dokey. And, I can't... my armor doesn't work for energy damage, does it?
DRE: I don't think so, but let me double-check.
KEITH: How much, uh... health does that big thing have?
JACK: I have 14 health — I have 18 health total, but I have 14 health now.
KEITH: Okay.
JACK: That's pre, taking the 5 energy damage.
DRE: Actually, I — I'm double-checking, but I'm pretty sure off the top of my head that armor does work against energy damage.
JACK: Okay, cool. Yeah, so, uh, while you double-check that, I will take 3 energy damage, because I have 2 armor.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: Taking me down to 11 health. Martilla wipes her brow...
DRE: [chuckling]
JACK: It's, uh, also, real quick, it's not glass. It's, uh, transparent resin, and in order to be bulletproof or whatever it is, it's immensely thick. This is like, resin that's like, 5, 6 feet thick.
AUSTIN: Oh, yeah.
JACK: Like a gigantic block. And so there's just like, moisture, condensation running down the inside of this like, horrible artillery mech, on the resin.
SYLVIA: Eugh.
DRE: Yeah. Uh...
SYLVIA: You're in a giant terrarium, is what you're describing.
AUSTIN: [laughing]
JACK: Yeah, look. You put a war criminal in a terrarium, and you give her something called, “the apocalypse cannon.”
DRE: Oh, actually, I — I misread this. Actually, Martilla, make a systems save for me. Because you do get to resist this.
JACK: Okay. So I will put 3 health back on, just —
DRE: Yeah. For now. [chuckling]
JACK: [chuckles] Just until I do this. How do I make a systems save? I press...
DRE: Uh... if you open your sheet, and... on your mech stats, you just have like hull, agility, systems, and engineering on there. They're like. HUL, AGI, SYS, and ENG.
JACK: Uh...
AUSTIN: Do y'all not have the thing in the top left that says —
JACK: Yes, no, I do see it.
AUSTIN: That says the name of your thing?
JACK: My systems skill is 0.
DRE: Yeah. That's —
JACK: Oh, I do also have the thing in my top left, but I don't know how to find… 
KEITH: You mean the thing that has pilot, mech, weapon systems, utility —
AUSTIN: Yeah. And then, yeah, if you mouse over that, I think you should be able to just click. I think.
JACK: All right, let's just hit systems, let's see what it does. Uh... this is, I think, if I'm making an attack.
AUSTIN: Mm. Okay. 
DRE: Hm...
JACK: It pulls up the, like, the button. Whereas, I just want — I have 0 systems.
AUSTIN: Right.
JACK: So, let's see how this goes. Oh, this also pulls up that interface, Dre.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I think it's the same interface.
JACK: Do I just click go? I don't want to add accurate, inaccurate —
DRE: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
JACK: Impaired...
DRE: Mm-hm.
JACK: Yeah. Okay. So rolled… 
DRE: So, that's a 7. So that is a failure.
JACK: Okey-dokey.
DRE: I don't know if we, if I ever explicitly said this, but basically, most skill checks are a 10 or better.
JACK: Okay.
DRE: Unless they are explicitly stated as being X difficulty.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
DRE: Uh... so yeah, so you take —
JACK: So I take —
DRE and JACK: 3.
DRE: Yep. Uh... so you have a virus in your system that is not letting you clear heat, that's why your cockpit is getting so hot.
AUSTIN: Oh, that's a problem.
JACK: Wow. Okay.
DRE: What the rest of you all do see, though, is that grandpa gumdrop, like, seizes up. It is completely rigid. Because it is immobile —
AUSTIN: Ah, I see.
DRE: While this virus is attacking, uh, Martilla's mech, it is completely immobile. However, immobilized doesn't mean that it can't still do other bad things. Uh... so...
JACK: Uh, do we know the time limit on this virus?
DRE: It, uh... it's until the end of the scene.
AUSTIN: Yikes.
JACK: Oh. What about if we kill the gumdrop?
DRE: That will get rid of it, as well.
AUSTIN: Ah.
KEITH: Is there another, can you like — actively try to clear it a second — again?
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Like if you resave?
DRE: Do you — hm. Did I do this as a GM roll, so you all don't get to see the thing that's in, like, the roll chat?
AUSTIN: Yeah, we don't get to see it.
DRE: Okay, sorry. I must have done that by accident. So, yeah, basically the ways you can clear this virus, uh, are... at the end of the scene, it'll go away. You can destroy this mech, or, until the affected character moves adjacent to the enemy mech. [chuckling] so...
Everyone:        [laughing]
AUSTIN: Well that's not [laughing] happening. That's... let's just do a quick, some quick maths here... uh... no.
KEITH: There’s two ways you can clear this virus.
JACK: I'll be there in 48 hours.
AUSTIN and DRE: [laughing]
JACK: Okay. Well, fair enough. Yeah.
DRE: Okay. And then... 
KEITH: Luckily, it is immobilized. So.
AUSTIN: Okay, I could... [laughing] if this ever became a life or death situation —
DRE: Sure, uh-huh.
AUSTIN: I could go between both of you and try to harpoon grapple you both. [laughing]
KEITH: [laughing]
AUSTIN: To me.
SYLVIA and JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: But I feel like that's a bad idea.
SYLVIA: Hey. Spiderman verse, dropping the train —
AUSTIN: [laughing] Yes, exactly.
SYLVIA: God.
AUSTIN: It was very important for Spiderman to make these two trains appear next to one another briefly.
DRE: Mm-hm.
JACK: It would be, you would just attach the grapple to Under the Radar, and then you would grapple to Under the Radar.
AUSTIN: This is not true, believe it or not, because of things I have.
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: I count as, as big as anything I'm grappling. Yep.
KEITH: [laughing]
SYLVIA: [laughing]
JACK: Holy shit.
AUSTIN: And bigger than anything that's my size, that I try to grapple, which is why I don't have to roll to grapple something.
SYLVIA: Oh, hell yeah.
JACK: I mean... maybe we could just use to move me around the battlefield [laughing]
AUSTIN: It, it truly might be [chuckling]
KEITH: That's so funny.
AUSTIN: And, like it truly might be viable.
JACK: And, and —
SYLVIA: Your mech just [unintelligible]
AUSTIN: This is literally viable. I — it took me a second to like, work through it, but, as long as you don't resist the grapple, I could do that.
KEITH: And, and Jack, correct me if I'm wrong, but your mech works better if it stays in place. And it wouldn't count as you moving, because you're not taking a move action, right?
JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: So, would it ruin the bonuses?
JACK: I don't know, let me check to see how my siege stabilizers work.
AUSTIN: I mean, it literally says in your thing, it says, as long as you don't — you can start charging your charge rail. You can't move or take any other actions on the same turn. You wouldn't be moving. I could just drag you —
JACK: I think my — no, I think my charge rail gets interrupted if I get hit.
AUSTIN: I'm not hitting you.
DRE: Hm...
SYLVIA and KEITH: [laughing]
JACK: Look —
SYLVIA: It's just a little harpoon, you're fine.
AUSTIN: I'm wrapping it around, and dragging.
DRE: Jeez.
JACK: Uh... yeah, let me check the siege stabilizers —
SYLVIA: [laughing] It’s a non-lethal harpoon.
AUSTIN: This doesn't matter. None of this matters, yet. But it's important to think about.
SYLVIA: Yeah. Yeah.
JACK: Dre, If you get —
DRE: It's important to think about.
JACK: Immobilized —
DRE: Uh-huh.
JACK: Can you be grappled?
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Yeah.
DRE: Absolutely.
JACK: And, does — are you still immobilized when you are being grappled?
DRE: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
JACK: So, I could deploy siege stabilizers, get the bonus, and then Austin could just move me around —
AUSTIN: I can use omni-harpoon to move you. It would be like, to be clear, I have to spend the point for omni-harpoon, but, let's just say, it would be a —
JACK: Not the end of the world, you know?
AUSTIN: Not the end of the world.
KEITH: Oh. When we weren't, when we weren't looking, Dre put an aura on the gumdrop.
AUSTIN: Oh, I hate that.
DRE: Yeah. Listen, it's not — you all were talking, so —
AUSTIN: Is, is that what grandpa gumdrop did to baby gumdrop?
DRE: Yeah. So, grandpa gumdrop has put a shield on baby gumdrop at this point, yeah.
AUSTIN: That's fine.
JACK: Do shields — can armor-piercing weapons go through shields?
DRE: Uh... I — you should find out.
JACK: Okay, sounds good. I realized that, you know when you, uh, see someone who has never played a video game before, and they do things like point at a door that's clearly part of the scenery, and go, “can you chop it down with the axe?”
KEITH: [laughing] Yes, I do know.
JACK: I also feel like this when I'm playing a game like this, where I'm like, “hey, Dre, can my armor-piercing rounds work on that?”
DRE: [chuckling]
JACK: Eh, we'll find out.
DRE: Yeah, we'll find out.
AUSTIN: Is that grandpa's final thing?
DRE: Okay — that is grandpa gumdrop's turn, yes.
JACK: I would, I am going to deploy some drones on my turn. And, one of the things that my turret drones can do is, they take an immediate reaction whenever an ally within range makes a successful attack.
AUSTIN: Ooh.
JACK: So it might make sense to deploy them earlier, such that they can fire —
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Mm-hm.
JACK: As other folks make attacks.
SYLVIA: Yeah. I might make a bunch of successful attacks soon, so… 
AUSTIN: Yeah, that makes sense.
KEITH: I am perfectly willing to nominate you to go next, Jack.
JACK: Okay. Sounds good! Uh... let me just check this again. Yeah. Okay. So the first thing that happens is, uh... you know, wiping the sweat from her brow and, uh... you know, looking deeply uncomfortable, Martilla emerges briefly from a hatch on top of the mech. And, lifting another heavy hatch, lets loose this kind of like buzzing, slow, bumblebee drone that pops out of the, the — Under the Radar. This is an autoloader drone, and this takes 1 — this is a quick action. Uh, it takes 1 charge. Uh, I have a few of these, but, uh, I'm just checking it off on my list. And it appears adjacent to me. Uh... and once per round, any character adjacent to the autoloader drone may reload a loading weapon as a quick action.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
JACK: It deactivates at the end of a scene. Uh... so, how do I put this little guy into — oh, there it is!
AUSTIN: Is that the little guy right there?
DRE: I just dragged it out for you, yeah. You can place it wherever you want that's adjacent to you.
JACK: So, the autoloader drone looks like a gigantic — not gigantic compared to Under the Radar, gigantic for a drone. It's like, just like a big, slow, buzzing chunk of metal, wobbling uneasily on its rotor blade as it carries, slung underneath it, a bandolier of like, shells and ammo racks or whatever. And when something needs loading, it, you know, it bumbles over and loads it into the thing. At the same time, another hatch opens, and a spindly little horrible little freak emerges.
SYLVIA and KEITH: [laughing]
KEITH: What does he sound like?
JACK: [spindly little horrible little freak noise]
Everyone:        [laughing]
AUSTIN: Oh, my goodness. What a little, spindly little freak!
DRE: Didn't — didn't know you had it in you, Jack. [laughing]
KEITH: Literally.
SYLVIA: Oh my god!
JACK: So, this is expend a turret — this is my second quick action. I'm allowed to do this, right Dre?
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
JACK: Take two actions to deploy drones.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: I just couldn't deploy two turret drones.
DRE: Exactly. Yep.
JACK: Okay. The way this thing works is, I can deploy it within line of sight or sensors. What's my line of sight?
DRE: Uh... I mean, where you can see.
JACK: Okay. Can I see… 
DRE: That's not like, covered by like, anything that's like, too big to see over.
JACK: Yeah. And it has range 10. Uh... so, can I send it onto those... sorry, I'm reading the bit that says deploy turret drone. Yeah, it attaches to any object or surface within sensors and line of sight. So, could I send it up to be like, up on those, uh, those —
DRE: Sure. 
AUSTIN: What are your sensors?
JACK: — what are they called, the containers. Uh... my sensors are —
AUSTIN: Oh, you have great sensors.
JACK: Not great — well, let's see, actually.
KEITH: It's, it's 10 line of sight, to get there.
JACK: Yeah, my sensor range is 10.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Whoops, that's the wrong one. Oh, why is it only giving me autoloader drones instead of turret drones? [clicking]
AUSTIN: Yeah, that's sick. God. It puts all of them in range. I love that.
KEITH: What is, what is the, uh, attack roll like on those?
JACK: So, the way the turret drone works is, —
AUSTIN: There we go.
KEITH: Aw, look at it.
JACK: Once per round, per turret, its trigger is an allied character within 10 range of a turret drone make a successful attack. And then the effect is, the turret drone deals 3 damage to their target, as long as it has line of sight to their target.
KEITH: Sick. That's sick.
JACK: Is that the damage symbol, Dre? It's like a little circle with a line through it?
DRE: Mm-hm.
JACK: Okay, cool.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: And it's kinetic, right? Specifically?
DRE: It's kinetic, yeah, it's specifically kinetic.
JACK: And I want to say — yeah, yeah, yeah, it does kinetic damage. Uh, I make this horrible sound that this thing makes. The reason that it's doing that is that, unlike the slow, wobbling bumblebee loader drone, this thing is just like, it's almost like a manhack from Half-Life. It's just like a mass of screaming metal, that is... constantly rubbing against itself, and showers of sparks and grinding of gears. This little thing is horrible. And it is being made inside Under the Radar, which is why it's so inexpert —
KEITH: There's a little manufacturing facility in there?
JACK: There's a little manufacturing facility. It can only make me, checks my notes —
DRE: Oh, I love it.
AUSTIN: God. I love it.
JACK: At most, like 5 at a time. But that's why it makes them kind of inexpertly, and they have to go scuttling out over the battlefield. Uh... and so, her task done, Martilla just goes clambering back into her sweltering mech, and, you know, pulls her, pulls her visor further down over her eyes. And that's my turn.
KEITH: I like to imagine that, over the course of like a campaign of this, like, Jack slowly reveals the different kinds of facilities that are inside Under the Radar. Like, it was a mech. Now it's a mech And a factory. And I just hope one day —
JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: It's a mech, and a factory, and two other things, and also a small cafe.
JACK: We got vending machines in here.
KEITH: [laughing]
SYLVIA: Oh my god.
JACK: Turn it upside-down, you can play Mancala on it.
KEITH: I'm 100 percent willing to believe that there are 2 to 4 vending machines inside Under the Radar.
JACK: [chuckling] But, but yeah. That's my turn. So the only thing we need to watch for now is if someone within 10 range of the turret drone makes a successful action, it will act.
DRE: Gotcha.
JACK: But, once per turn.
DRE: Uh... and what triggers that, again?
JACK: Uh, an allied character within 10 of the turret drone making a successful attack.
DRE: Okay. Gotcha. Okay. Understood. Okay.
KEITH: Wow, and Sylvi's right there. Right within 10, that's perfect.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Mm-hm.
DRE: Yep. Uh, so, I think, what did you all — did you all call this the priest mech? The little green... I shouldn't say —
AUSTIN: We didn't, but...
KEITH: I would love to call it that, yeah.
JACK: I think Keith just expressed fear.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: Fear, more than naming it, yeah.
AUSTIN: It got closer, I don't like that.
DRE: How fast can they... I'm double-checking their movement speed.
SYLVIA: Oh... I thought its little shield electricity thing was like, goop, before I zoomed in. And I was like, oh, I'm worried about this goopy mech.
KEITH: The goop is, is —
SYLVIA: Uh... still worried about it, but it's not goopy.
AUSTIN: [?] The gü.
JACK: The gü!
KEITH: Goop is accurate because it does read to me as the exact color as those like, 70s Jell-o with a broccoli in it or whatever, what are those called?
JACK: Fuck are you talking about?
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: You've never seen the Jell-o with a broccoli in it?
JACK: No.
AUSTIN: Yeah, those things Janine posts all the time that are gross.
DRE: You know, the Jell-o with the broccoli in it. God.
JACK: Oh, oh, yes. I do know, sorry. I thought you meant that they were some kind of like, toy or candy or something. But what you actually mean is, it's Jell-o with broccoli inside it.
KEITH: [laughing]
DRE: I'm just going to draw this. So they, uh... this mech kind of jumps off the ledge and moves through the trees. Uh, actually, you know what? I broke my own rule. They can only move this much, because that's difficult terrain.
AUSTIN: Ah, right.
DRE: But they're still close enough to do this.
AUSTIN: Fuck.
DRE: Uh... I don't know who would be close enough to see this. Probably — Captain, you can probably see it.
AUSTIN: I can see it, yeah. Please — Captain, Captain is the mech. I am not the Captain.
DRE: Sure, you're right.
AUSTIN: I'm — I'm Ketch —
DRE: Narmine. Narmine Te’ketch.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: This mech shoots, it has like a, almost like kind of what you do, it has what appears to be a harpoon come out of it.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
DRE: And connect to this mech. And it is sending back and — like you see electricity arcing across that harpoon.
AUSTIN: I hate that.
KEITH: Oh my god, is it the ghost virus from that Scooby Doo movie?
SYLVIA: Oh, no.
DRE: Uh...
KEITH: Oh, no!
AUSTIN: That's a deep cut.
SYLVIA: Not the villain of Scooby Doo: Cyberchase!
DRE: Uh... I don't know — yeah, I don't know what we're talking about here.
KEITH: [laughing] The villain — yeah, the villain of Scooby Doo: Cyberchase. [laughing] it literally does kind of look like that thing, though.
AUSTIN: It's a purple line. Is that what it looks like?
KEITH: Uh... no, no, sorry, the mech. The mech.
DRE: I don't know if that's exactly what it looks like —
AUSTIN: Oh...
DRE: Oh, you're asking if the ghost looks like that.
AUSTIN: I see.
DRE: [laughing] uh... and then... Captain, what does your HUD and cockpit look like?
AUSTIN: In this moment... uh... I think that it is a, I think it's a really minimalist thing, sort of like the, uh... Under the Radar. Except I do actually have HUD. So, so it's mostly a big glass window, or it looks like a glass window. And then light blue, then light blue lines, as like, really glowy vector lines, you know what I mean? Uh... like, they're a little too light to see, to see — on a regular monitor this would be bad, because they're so bright. Uh, and so those are like outlining things, and I think there's a little like, Fudgie The Whale style like UI mascot that shows up sometimes and gives me like Clippy style advice. So, you know, it's like, drawing little squares around things, to be like, ah, yeah, there's targets over there.
DRE: Gotcha. Okay. Uh...
AUSTIN: I don't know if it's actually glass, I suspect it's not actually glass, and it's just, it has the presentation of seeming as if I'm looking straight out of my mech, but I don't think I actually am.
DRE: Yeah. So, whatever your little Clippy thing that you described kind of pops up on your HUD, and it starts highlighting, drawing boxes around all of your weapon systems.
AUSTIN: Mmm, don't like it.
DRE: Uh... and it is warning you that, for whatever reason, the amount of energy it is taking for you to activate your weapons systems has been, like, increased.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
DRE: Every time that you make an attack until the end of your next turn, you take 3 heat.
AUSTIN: Yikes. So, each — each activation creates 3 heat. Not the second one forward?
DRE: Each activation.
AUSTIN: So I can't swing a weapon without — without overheating, effectively. Because I'm at 1 heat right now.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Okay. Uh, does it give me any tips on how to clear this? [chuckles]
DRE: Uh... it just goes away at the end of your next turn.
AUSTIN: Oh, okay. Okay. So I just shouldn't attack this turn.
DRE: So, at the end of your upcoming turn, it will go away.
AUSTIN: Right. Right right right.
DRE: Yeah. Okay. And that is... the scary, the mech that Keith was afraid of's turn.
AUSTIN: Don't like it.
SYLVIA: Do y'all mind if I go?
AUSTIN: Please go.
JACK: Please.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
JACK: Best of luck.
SYLVIA: Okay. Going to say, uh, a very normal sentence really quick. Dre, I have a question about divine punishment.
DRE: Sure, absolutely.
JACK: Oh yeah. Why?
DRE: I was, I couldn't wait for you to ask me this.
SYLVIA: Yeah, so this is a, I just want to know, like... more like, how I recharge this after I use it. I'm assuming I can't use it in this battle again. I just want to know, like, out of combat, uh... if there's anything I need to specifically do for like the core ability.
DRE: So, yeah, using your core ability is something that you can only use again once you basically get to like a full rest.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: Which is basically like a place where you all have enough time that you like, go back to a hangar and you can do like, full repairs on your mech. Uh... that being said, if I remember correctly...
AUSTIN: I also think this is true —
DRE: Yes. Sylvi, you took a core battery as your reserve, which means that you have —
SYLVIA: Ooh.
DRE: Like a free in-field recharge of your, of your core system.
SYLVIA: I'm so smart, shoutout to past Sylvi.
JACK: [laughing]
DRE: Uh-huh.
SYLVIA: Okay, so that — I'm... okay, a couple very important things.
DRE: Yep.
SYLVIA: One, I'm using divine punishment. Choose any number of characters within range 50. Your targets must each succeed on an agility save or take 1D6 plus 4 explosive.
JACK: Within — range 50?!
SYLVIA: [chuckling] Within range 50!
AUSTIN: Uh... let me just do a quick check here, let's see. Uh...
SYLVIA: Uh-huh.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I think you can hit anybody. [chuckling]
DRE: Yeah, you can hit anybody.
SYLVIA: If you noticed me doing one check before, like at the early start of this game, like measuring one thing, and then being like, oh, okay. I'm fine — that's what this was for.
AUSTIN: Great.
JACK: Ornamental plates on the wall of the Winter Palace on Kesh are going to fall off.
KEITH: [laughing]
SYLVIA: On a success, they take half damage. These self-guiding missiles can reach any target, as long as there is a path to do so.
KEITH: For the record, the map, from one corner to its furthest corner is 33.
SYLVIA: So I'm picking everything.
DRE: Yeah, time for me to start rolling some die, I guess.
SYLVIA: And if — while you're doing that, I can describe how this looks.
DRE: Yeah, please.
SYLVIA: Uh, so an important thing I forgot to mention when describing my mech, the Ill Portent, is that it has a cowboy hat.
JACK: Yes!
AUSTIN: No, you mentioned. You mentioned. You mentioned.
SYLVIA: I mentioned it last — I don't know if I mentioned it this session.
AUSTIN: Ah.
SYLVIA: Which I need to mention, because the way this works is, I take the cowboy hat off, and all the missiles come out of my head.
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Let's, fucking, go. This is what we're talking about!
SYLVIA: I think that there's like straight up just like, not mechanically the extra limbs, because I don't think I took that. But there is just like an extra like arm that kind of comes off the shoulder to do that with. And...
JACK: God... we could have made them look like anything, and we did!
AUSTIN: Ha-ha. And we did.
SYLVIA: Yeah!
AUSTIN: And we did.
SYLVIA: This is how you give people a proper greeting on the battlefield. I think Zark literally says that.
DRE: God.
AUSTIN: Fuck.
DRE: Uh, have you rolled damage for that yet, by the way?
SYLVIA: I'm about to roll it, so...
DRE: Okay. [laughing]
AUSTIN: It's so funny.
DRE: Ugh, I'm really glad, uh...
SYLVIA: [dice rolling sound] 5.
AUSTIN: Okay.
SYLVIA: I rolled a 1.
AUSTIN: You rolled a 1. Is there not a way, you don't have anything to like, boost that, you don't have any...
SYLVIA: I don't think so.
DRE: I mean, good news is, is that, like, you roll up, right? So, you're still, like even on ones that succeeded, you're doing 3. So...
AUSTIN: Right, right.
DRE: So...
SYLVIA: Yeah.
AUSTIN: That's true.
DRE: This guy takes 3... this one takes 3...
SYLVIA: And I put my hat back on.
KEITH: No, uh, no turret damage, though, it looks like.
AUSTIN: Wait, why not?
DRE: Oh, no. Turret, yeah, no, turret would activate here.
SYLVIA: I think you just pick, you'd need to pick a target, right? I don't know how many you can hit with this.
AUSTIN: It only hits one. But you, you can say which one it hits, right? Because you can choose who you target first, right?
SYLVIA: Yeah, I'm just going through to see which ones, so it missed the...
JACK: It's going to do 3 kinetic damage.
SYLVIA: Yeah. Which ones did I miss, Dre?
DRE: Well, again, you didn't miss any of them. Uh, but the ones that succeeded are —
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: Are the gumdrop that is over here, like the most eastern one. Like, I just realized they're all kind of in like an upside-down arc, right up here.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: So, if we're starting from like the eastern side of that arc, this gumdrop passed, the green mech passed, and then I think the next 3 failed it. No, this one up here, the very most like northernmost arc, gumdrop passed.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: But then, this Screw failed, grandpa failed, this Lift failed, and then this shield guy passed.
SYLVIA: Are we cool with taking the shot at grandpa? [laughing]
JACK: Get that old man's ass.
KEITH: [laughing]
DRE: Wow. Wow. Fucked up.
SYLVIA: I don't know, I just go for the biggest target, is how I work with these types of games, so...
DRE: Let me, uh, I need to double-check something before you do that, Sylvi.
SYLVIA: Yeah, no worries.
DRE: Uh... okay, no, you can go ahead and do that.
SYLVIA: Okay, cool.
DRE: And then I have something for you.
SYLVIA: Uh...
KEITH: So how much total damage was that?
DRE: I mean... 5, 10, 15... 13, 16, 19... 22.
KEITH: Wow. Nice.
SYLVIA: And then how much does the turret deal? Do I have to roll that? Or is it —
AUSTIN: It does flat 3.
JACK: It does, not, it just does flat 3.
DRE: It just does flat 3.
SYLVIA: Okay, cool.
JACK: Dre, I have a question — Dre...
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: It says, the turret deals 3 damage to their target, as long as it has line of sight to the target. It looks to me like that turret has line of sight. But up here, where it says turret drones, it's giving their stats, and it says 2SP, which I assume is... what is that SP?
DRE: That is a good question. Uh, oh, that's, that's systems points. That's how many, that's like how much —
JACK: Oh, that's how—
DRE: That's like your encumbrance level.
JACK: Limited 3, it's half-size, it has 5HP, it has 10 defense, it has 10 evasion. Yeah, it can see this guy. So it just does 3 damage to grandpa.
SYLVIA: Uh... am I able to do anything else to raise my mech's heat level? Or is that a... or is core systems just like, no, you're done after you use that?
DRE: So, here's the thing, is that, as you're raining these missiles, uh... let me ask you, what does your like, UI and HUD situation look like?
SYLVIA: So, I've been thinking, kind of, you remember the ships in the Matrix movies?
DRE: Of course I do.
SYLVIA: Where they're very like, chunky, the screens... it's like CRT screens and shit, just sort of like, loose wires everywhere. It's very ad hoc, it's like that. Uh... there's like, some remnants of like, this used to be like, a factory model like cockpit at one point, but it has been so personally modified at this point that it's like, hard to find those remnants.
DRE: Gotcha.
SYLVIA: Uh, yeah. Tons of screens, just walls covered in screens. I think it's one of those situations where it's multiple screens making up one image.
DRE: Whoops, I accidentally closed the book I needed. Uh... all of those screens, as that last missile hits, uh, the gumdrop that has the shield on it, all of your screens immediately shut off.
AUSTIN: Oh, fuck.
SYLVIA: Oh, fuck.
DRE: Uh... because, since you hit that gumdrop with the shield, you have become jammed.
SYLVIA: Damn it.
AUSTIN: Hate that.
DRE: Let me double-check how long that lasts for you. If it goes away on its own, or if you need to clear it. Okay, so it's at the end of your next turn.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: So, since you are jammed, you cannot talk to others. You cannot make attacks other than improvised attack, grapple, and ram. You cannot take reactions, and you cannot benefit from tech actions, either. So basically, like, you can still move, but all of your systems have been like, shut down and are rebooting.
SYLVIA: Okay. Would — would moving raise my heat at all?
JACK: [laughing]
DRE: Uh...
AUSTIN: You could overcharge, to raise your heat.
DRE: Yeah, you could overcharge to raise your heat, yeah, go for it.
AUSTIN: You can just overcharge to boost and move, right?
SYLVIA: Yeah, I'm going to do that.
DRE: Okay.
SYLVIA: But I need to click the overcharge button here, right?
DRE: Yes. That is —
SYLVIA: The plus-1?
DRE: Yeah, mm-hm. Because then it, it keeps track, because the more you overcharge, the more heat you potentially take.
SYLVIA: Okay. Do I click the dice first, and then —
DRE: Yep.
SYLVIA: The plus-1? Okay.
DRE: Just click the dice, and then it'll add it for you.
AUSTIN: Nice.
SYLVIA: Cool. Okay. Cool. Awesome.
DRE: And then on your sheet, it changes to plus-1D3, because it's the second time that you do —
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: Roll a D3, and — yeah, yeah, yeah.
SYLVIA: Cool. Uh...
DRE: So really, since you, again, you're doing this because you have the nuclear cavalier talent —
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: Which gives you bonus stuff for being in the danger zone, which is having half of your heat gauge filled.
SYLVIA: Mm-hm.
DRE: You should probably be overcharging, like... constantly.
SYLVIA: I know! I realized it after the first session, that I like, wasn't doing what I needed to do.
DRE: Now, to be fair, you were still kicking a lot of ass.
SYLVIA: Oh, for sure, as I, as I usually do. Uh... uh... I think I am going to move over to objective D, though. I think I...
DRE: Okay.
SYLVIA: I think that's within 6, right?
DRE: Oh yeah.
KEITH: You're already on objective B.
AUSTIN: D. D.
DRE: D.
KEITH: Oh, D, D, D, right, sure.
DRE: As in doggy.
SYLVIA: As in Kirby villain.
KEITH: Oh...
DRE: Hell yeah. Objective Dedede. Sure.
KEITH: [laughing]
SYLVIA: I think that's within 6 for the bottom square, there —
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
SYLVIA: Because that's the like, sort of like, base square for my character when moving, right? Is the bottom square of the, the grid? Okay, cool.
DRE: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Square, they're hexes, whatever. That's my turn.
DRE: Yeah. Uh... oh, I think it's also worth pointing out — as that turret drone takes the shot at grandpa gumdrop, you just hear a large ping as the bullet kind of flies off of it, and bounces off.
AUSTIN: Oh, I don't like that. Kinetic — kinetic armor. That's my guess.
SYLVIA: Please stop praying for my grandpa, he's getting too strong.
Everyone:        [laughing]
DRE: God. Uh... okay. What does this guy have? I'm trying to remember. [pause] Ooh. I keep closing my books.
AUSTIN: Ah... welcome. This is it. This is what happens all the time, Dre.
DRE: [laughing] Uh-huh. Yeah.
AUSTIN: It sucks.
DRE: Ah... [laughing] okay. All right. Okay. Uh... oh, he doesn't have that. Okay. Uh, really quickly, I'm just going to take this, this, this one's turn. And he's just going to, he takes a big, I think he, I think this mech has like, a bunch of like, grenades on a rack attached to his hip.
AUSTIN: Ah, uh-huh.
DRE: And just takes one off and reloads the grenade launcher.
AUSTIN: The one — this one right here? The bubble... bubblegum —
DRE: Yeah, mm-hm.
AUSTIN: The last of the old ones.
DRE: Yeah, that has the, the... current harpoon arc plugged into it.
AUSTIN: Right, right right. Uh, can I go? Are
DRE: Yes, that is your turn now, yeah.
AUSTIN: Because I'm the last one on this side, I guess. Uh...
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): No... you're not going to be using those.
AUSTIN: Uh... I'm going to grapple it. I can't attack with a melee weapon, but I can grapple safely without heating, right?
DRE: Uh...
AUSTIN: Read me what it says, again?
DRE: Yeah, let me double-check that.
AUSTIN: Because it's not using a weapon.
DRE: Uh... doo-doo-doo-doo-doo da-da-da da... actually, I'm reading the wrong character's page. Uh... each time they make any attack.
AUSTIN: A grapple is not an attack.
DRE: So I guess technically, a grapple is not an attack, yeah.
AUSTIN: Uh-uh. So, grapple cable. The Blackbeard can grapple targets within 5. If the grapple is successful, the Blackbeard is immediately pulled adjacent to the target by the most direct path. If there's no suitable space, then the grapple breaks, blah-blah-blah. So I can just do this... uh... as an adjacent thing to that, I have synthetic muscle netting, which says that I count as the same size as the largest opponent, and when I grapple or ram opponents of the same size, I'm at least one — I count as one size larger. Which means that it's irresistible, I believe —
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: Right? So, step one, grapple. Uh, and I just launch this harpoon into its chest to like zip myself over there.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: How do I move again? What's the button for that? It's just this? Yeah. So that's quick action one. Quick action two is, uh... my... uh... lock/kill subsystem says, while grappling, the Blackbeard can boost and take reactions. So, uh... I wrap my arm around this thing, and I boost away with it.
JACK: [laughing]
DRE: Excellent.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Aw, you're coming with me. I can't attack this turn.
SYLVIA: Fuck yes.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): My mech would hurt quite a bit if I did. But next turn... you're all mine.
AUSTIN: I talk about turns, now.
DRE: I have a quick question —
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
DRE: Yeah... where you taking this thing?
AUSTIN: Oh, far away, if I can.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: So I can — I can boost up to 6, so here's first boost. So that's here. Uh... I think I did that right, let's double-check. Yeah, that's six. So, it should be behind me by one.
DRE: Mm-hm. So it's moving all the way over here?
AUSTIN: Oh yeah. And then I'm going to boost again.
DRE: Okay, as you pull it —
AUSTIN: Oh, the cable, does it snap the cable?
DRE: The cable gets yanked —
AUSTIN: Thought so. I thought so.
DRE: Yeah, it gets yanked out.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): You should invest in better gear, my friend.
AUSTIN: And then I'm going to spend one heat to boost again, back here, using my —
SYLVIA: Hey.
AUSTIN: Actually, you know what? Bring you up here, maybe. Maybe bring you up here? No, let's —
JACK: Dre, can we kick him out of the worldspace, and then there's no collision, just flying —
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: He just falls forever.
AUSTIN: Dre, what happens if — here's a real question. So, I can boost to move one more, up to this — people who are watching at home, I can use my boost cables, whatever my flight cable is called, uh...
DRE: God. You are just dragging this thing literally across the entire train yard.
AUSTIN: Yeah. 12, 12 spaces in this turn. So, but here's my question. This is raised, right? How much is this raised?
DRE: Uh... oh, boy.
AUSTIN: Because there's fall damage in this game. And if I land here, and then it has to land here, that's dropping it.
DRE: Hm... so, I think, if it, for it to be high enough for it to be fall damage, then that would probably also require you to make some kind of roll to get up there.
AUSTIN: I have a — I fly, remember?
DRE: You do fly.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I have grapple swing, whenever — yeah, I can fly. [chuckles]
DRE: Yeah. All right. Yeah.
AUSTIN: So I can't attack it this turn. But I can bring it up to the top of this cliff and let go.
KEITH: [laughing]
DRE: That is — yeah.
SYLVIA: [cackling]
AUSTIN: Let me burn another — let me burn another boost, or let me actually do the thing that... how do I do that again? Is that... stats, and then... da-da-da-da-da... overcharge, right? Oh, wait. Does that overcharge, does that overcharge reset once per turn or once per scene?
DRE: Once per scene.
AUSTIN: Ooh, so this is risky.
DRE: Uh-huh.
AUSTIN: Ooh...
KEITH: Are you filling your heat cap?
AUSTIN: I'm at... I'm at 1. I could roll a 3 on this, and it could fuck me.
KEITH: No, it — you have to exceed the heat cap, you're at —
AUSTIN: Oh, do you? No, you have to hit 4.
DRE: Yeah, you exceed it.
KEITH: No, it says, it says in the thing. It says exceed. Exceed. It specifically says exceed.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Oh, really?
DRE: Yeah, it says exceed, yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: All right, then fuck it. Yeah, let's do it. This is fun. I mean, at this point, if that's the case, I should have just swung on it instead.
DRE: Yeah. [chuckles]
AUSTIN: But wait, what's fall damage? I can't believe I — I can't believe we did tactical combat in one — for the first time really ever, and I immediately made a character that just grapples and does fall damage shit —
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: The most ridiculous...
DRE: The most D&D 3.5 character you could have made.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
DRE: So, it says it does 3 armor-piercing damage per 3 spaces it is dropped.
AUSTIN: Okay. So that's like only 3, I'm guessing?
DRE: So let's say... yeah. 
AUSTIN: Is it worth it…
DRE: Because otherwise then you'd be having to take a lot more to like...
AUSTIN: Yeah. I think it's worth just dragging this motherfucker as far away as possible, though.
DRE: Sure.
KEITH: The gumdrop.
AUSTIN: Mmm... has this gumdrop been hit yet, at all?
DRE: No.
AUSTIN: Not at all.
DRE: I don't think so.
KEITH: I don't think so. 
DRE: Well, it got hit by Sylvi.
KEITH: Oh, okay.
AUSTIN: Oh, right, it did get hit by Sylvi. Do we remember how much damage the previous one took, is that a thing we could have learned?
DRE: Uh... I mean —
AUSTIN: I mean, we can roll up, I scroll up and check.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: And just guesstimate... is this the, this is the Ordinance Alpha, Dre? Oh, we — the problem with the other one is, we destroyed it with the siege cannon [chuckling] so it's hard to know...
DRE: Uh-huh.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Maybe we — I really love the visual of dropping it from a cliff. Maybe I love that enough that... it's okay to... waste my turn doing this, instead of trying to kill it with a sword. Here's a real question for y'all is: how important is it, do you think, for me to stay up in the mix at this point, versus —
JACK: You do good in the mix.
AUSTIN: I do, do good in the mix.        
KEITH: I, I, I'll say — I'm basically useless for at least one turn.
DRE: Here's the other thing that you could do here. If you want to do this, and just do more damage —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Instead of moving your, was it 12?
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: You could just fly up 10 spaces.
AUSTIN: I can't, because I have to — I can't fly. I have a grapple system. So it has to hook into something.
DRE: Oh, okay.
AUSTIN: Do you understand — do you know what I mean?
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: So it's like, I could fly over bad terrain or up a cliff, because I'm hooking into something —
DRE: Gotcha. Okay, okay, yeah.
AUSTIN: And dragging myself up in the air with it, basically. Uh, I'm Spiderman. I'm a Spiderman mech. So, like we said —
DRE: Uh-huh. Yeah.
AUSTIN: Let me just quickly look at how much damage I could theoretically do to this thing...
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: With just a regular attack.
KEITH: I like that it looks like Sylvi's mech is lying down on the boxes.
SYLVIA: I'm jammed right now I'm resting.
DRE: Hey, Sylvi, did you mean to rotate your mech?
AUSTIN: It's so funny.
SYLVIA: Did I do it? I didn't mean to.
DRE: There you go. [laughing]
SYLVIA: I'm reclining!
KEITH: How do we — I want to rotate.
DRE: Uh, it's — you hold down... yeah. You hold down control. And then you move your mouse wheel.
AUSTIN: What happens —
DRE: [laughing] I'm glad everyone is breakdancing their mech.
KEITH: [giggling]
SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Extremely good. Sorry, I have to look up what prone is.
DRE: Sure.
AUSTIN: Prone is when you're just on — I mean, I know what prone means. But you're slowed, and all attacks get plus-1 against you. Okay. Uh... here's what I'm going to do instead, then. I'm going to spend my one blademaster token, to trip this motherfucker, which makes them pass an agility save or fall prone.
DRE: Mm-hm. So let me do that… [pause] that fails. Okay —
AUSTIN: So now they're prone. Oh, you know what? Sorry. I can't do all the shit I want to do here. I was going to do an attack instead — actually, wait. Let me... let me figure out, figure this out.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: That first maneuver was a grapple, which is a quick action, right?
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: I guess, I don't know, I guess that I use my movement to get back here while grappled, because I'm bigger than it, so I can just drag it. So, yeah. No, we're fine, we're fine.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: I was trying to figure out, did I have to boost, before, but I don't have to boost. I can... I can... we're good. So now I can use... now I'm going to attack. I'm going to attack it with my... my regular little sword, you know, my regular little chain axe. Uh... Let me target it. And this is, on crit it becomes shredded until the end of the current turn. Uh... so let's target it. And then let's... actually, wait. Is the end of the turn now? Is the turn about to end, Dre?
DRE: It's the end of your... let's see, your next turn.
AUSTIN: Because, the way this is written is, until the — your target becomes shredded until the end of the current turn.
DRE: Mmm.
AUSTIN: So that really only is valuable if someone can follow up on that, right?
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
AUSTIN: So let me just use the big nanocarbon sword, the heavy melee, then, instead. Uh... so... let's target it. Then... weapons... nanocarbon sword... uh... with... it's prone, so it's, do I just get plus-one accuracy on that? Is that how that works?
DRE: Yes. Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Okay. Also... I think that that's it. Oh, oh, and I also get a plus-1 from getting a bonus when it's, when I'm grappling.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: So I just get another plus-1 from that?
DRE: Yeah, let me also check something.
AUSTIN: Please.
DRE: Okay. No, you're good. All right.
AUSTIN: So that's plus-2... uh... okay. Should have rolled. Did it roll? It did. I critted... I do 10 damage. [chuckles]
DRE: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: To this thing.
KEITH: I think you got the gumdrop.
AUSTIN: Well, we don't know how, I don't know how strong these things are.
DRE: Yeah. So, what's interesting is, as you —
AUSTIN: Oh, and I have to take, and I take —
DRE: How are you stabbing it with the sword?
AUSTIN: Oh, I've just dragged it away, and as a reminder, I should now roll 1D3 to get heat from this, for using a weapon, right?
DRE: Yes. Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: 1D3, or 1D4? 1D3, right?
DRE: Yeah, 1D3.
AUSTIN: [dice roll] All right, two.
DRE: In the clear. You're fine.
AUSTIN: In the clear. Phew.
KEITH: To bring you, what, you're at, that's 3 out of 4?
AUSTIN: I'm at 3 out of 4. Yes, yeah. Uh... what were you going to say, Dre? You were asking me what it looked like.
DRE: Uh, yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I think the thing that I do is, I, I'm moving forward as fast as I can. And I throw my blade forward, so that it stands in the ground with the blade up. And I just run past it, so that it impales this guy behind me on the blade —
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: You know what I mean?
DRE: Uh, that should work. But, as it like, strikes its shoulder, the mech actually like, careens off of it.
AUSTIN: That motherfucker. Okay. I'll let him — it's fine, it's fine.
DRE: So, it does have a very large dent in the shoulder.
AUSTIN: Okay. But I still am grappling it, so everybody, please know —
DRE: Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: It's... thing's a punk.
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: Uh... and does this end up... counting for the turret? Can the turret now shoot this thing?
AUSTIN: Turret is once per turn, unfortunately. Or is it once per round? Wait wait wait, is it once per round?
KEITH: Oh, once per round? Because that —
DRE: I believe it's once per round.
KEITH: Oh!
JACK: It's once per round.
DRE: Then yeah.
AUSTIN: Is a round — oh, a round is, everybody goes.
JACK: A round is like everybody.
AUSTIN: Turn would be —
KEITH: Turn would be, if it was turn it could go, but it's round so it can't.
JACK: See, the reason that these turrets start getting really interesting is because I have a bunch of them.
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah.
JACK: Uh, and that's when they start getting really nasty. Uh, I still have a bit of busy work to do before I can start getting the really big guns firing. I've been on the smaller guns for the time being. But I'm getting there.
AUSTIN: Incredible.
KEITH: What are — what kind of busy work? Just sitting? Just literally, you just have to wait? Or —
JACK: Uh, no, I —
KEITH: Or are you playing like a little mini-game that we can't see?
JACK: It's a mini-game that you could see if you were looking at my character sheet, but like, firing my big guns has big consequences. Big guns have big consequences, you know?
AUSTIN: Mmm, yeah.
JACK: And in order to make those consequences more amenable to me, I would like to have drones up, and I would like to have siege stabilizers down, and things like that. Uh... and I think that big gumdrop is going to be sticking around for long enough that it's worth me taking a turn to get the mech into real firing position —
AUSTIN: Like, do the damn thing.
JACK: And then I can just do the coup de grace. Yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: All right. I think that's my turn.
DRE: Yep. Uh, I'll going to go ahead and move, uh, Deanthe's mech. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5...6. 7... 8... yeah. That's as close as I can get, which is fine. Uh...
KEITH: Look who finally showed up! Thanks for the help.
DRE: [laughing] Uh, so, as they're getting out of their mech, first they are just like hopping out of their cockpit, which is just, you know, kind of regular like, chest-placed like mech cockpit. But also, like, lowering from, actually the right leg, like a, a compartment pops out of the back and lowers to the ground. Uh, because they have an extra, like, cargo package thing inside of their mech —
AUSTIN: Mmm.
DRE: That allows them to carry extra people. Uh... okay, who else needs to go? Basically everybody else needs to go. [laughing]
AUSTIN: Yeah, this is worrying to me.
DRE: [chuckling] uh...
KEITH: What do you, what do you mean else?
DRE: You know, just the, just the other people. It's fine.
KEITH: How many else? There's only, what, two else, right?
AUSTIN: No. Is that true?
KEITH: 3 else?
DRE: No, there's all of these folks up here.
AUSTIN: 1, 2, 3, 4.
KEITH: Oh, I thought that gumdrop—
DRE: I guess grandpa already went.
KEITH: Grandpa already went.
AUSTIN: Grandpa went.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: The little gumdrop 2, and little gumdrop 3.
KEITH: Right... the shield doesn't mean that it went. The shield is part of grandpa's turn.
AUSTIN: I think, yeah, grandpa gave —
DRE: Yeah, that was part of grandpa's turn.
AUSTIN: Little baby a shield.
DRE: Mm-hm. [chuckles] 'Lil baby.
AUSTIN: 'Lil Baby.
JACK: 'Lil Baby.
DRE: Ugh... I don't think, this — they can't hit anybody from up there.
SYLVIA: Oh, thank god.
JACK: Yes!
AUSTIN: So, this was the reason I was like, we have got to get the fuck away — I have to get away from up there, a little bit.
DRE: 2, 3, 4, 5...
KEITH: Well, there is one of them that can hit.
DRE: That's true. I've got to remember how this guy works.
AUSTIN: Wait, who?
KEITH: I mean, never mind, don't — none of them get hit.
AUSTIN: No, please, don't — no one can hit anything.
JACK: Keep your damn mouth shut.
KEITH: Sorry.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
DRE: Uh... right. I don't know if y'all remember, but these, these folks teleport.
KEITH: Yeah, I remember, as demonstrated.
AUSTIN: Ugh... hate it.
DRE: Uh, so I — Martilla, I need you to make an agility save.
AUSTIN and KEITH: [laughing]
JACK: Oh... what?
DRE: Do you want to — do you want to talk about how one of your, like mech's things is just, you take plus-1 difficulty on all agility checks? [chuckling]
JACK: Yeah... agility is really... is a little tough for me. Because I'm the size of a bridge.
AUSTIN: [chuckles]
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: Uh... so let's go agility and... I'm just going to check the inaccurate box to do negative 1.
DRE: Mm-hm.
JACK: Or will it do that automatically?
DRE: I... don't know.
JACK: Let's... I will check the... what's the best way to do this? All right. I'll just make the roll without any additions, and we will see if it does...
DRE: Yeah, and then if we need to add a D6 we can do that.
JACK: Negative one to it, and then — yeah.
DRE: Okay, so it didn't do it.
JACK: No, it didn't.
AUSTIN: Aw.
JACK: Okay, so you want me to roll 1D6?
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: [dice roll] Hey!
JACK: [unintelligible].
DRE: Ah, you did it.
JACK: So, my roll is 12.
DRE: Yep. Which, which passes.
SYLVIA: Oh my god.
DRE: So, you do take... uh, 2 armor-piercing energy damage.
JACK: 2 armor-piercing energy damage, okay. And that was on a success?
DRE: Yes. [dice roll]
JACK: Okay.
KEITH: It's like, you throw something at someone, and you say like, “think fast!” And you fully expect to hit them in the head with whatever you threw at them, and they just —
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Absolutely grab it.
DRE: Let me say this. If you had failed that roll, it would have been a lot worse.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
JACK: Uh...
KEITH: That's — you got 5 for, for succeeding?
DRE: No, that's —
KEITH: Oh, okay.
DRE: It takes damage whenever it does that move.
AUSTIN: Oh...
DRE: So that's how much damage it just takes.
AUSTIN: Oh, right.
KEITH: Oh, it hurts itself to do this thing, to teleport.
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: Okay, got it.
DRE: Uh...
JACK: Dre, does my, my — my health is now at 11, does that make sense? I'm trying to, I'm trying to remember if I was at 11 before — if I was at 14 and I didn't take the 3 health...
AUSTIN: You started at 14 today. You said that.
DRE: Mm-hm.
JACK: Oh, well then, yeah, I should have taken it down... I took 3 damage last time to make 11, and now I take 2 damage, 2 armor-piercing damage, to make 9.
DRE: Yes.
JACK: Okay, cool. Uh, I want to say that the agility save that I did is just that the mech slowly moves a leg, like —
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: You know when you're playing in one of those —
AUSTIN: Do you just get like an incoming Teleport—
JACK: Huge bosses in Elden Ring —
AUSTIN: Do you get like a warning sound, just like a — beep-beep beep — that's like, hey, move your leg real quick, because someone's about to teleport into you?
JACK: What happens is, uh, it's just —
SYLVIA: God.
JACK: Like an LED lights up behind another resin panel.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
JACK: And written on the resin panel is, with no punctuation, just the word, “teleport.” Martilla [chuckling] just like, pulls a lever, and the leg slowly, you know… Miserable thing.
DRE: Y'all are... very far away, is the thing.
AUSTIN: Mmm... mm-hm. All according to plan.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Yeah, we talked about it, we were like, better make sure that we're far away from that northwest corner —
AUSTIN: [chuckling]
KEITH: Just in case something shows up from up there.
DRE: Uh... boop. Beep boop.
KEITH: And the pink thing can't move.
AUSTIN: That's bad news...
DRE: Woof. Woof.
AUSTIN: This is bad.
DRE: That is bad.
KEITH: Wait wait, wait wait, what happened, I missed it.
AUSTIN: It's fine. It's fine.
DRE: It's fine. [laughing]
AUSTIN: Tell me what happens. I can see it, but...
DRE: Uh... yeah, so, I think, again, your, your little Clippy guy starts going, even more upset than last time —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: And starts drawing like, big red rectangles and circles all over all of your like, all over your legs, I guess —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: That's like your main movement.
AUSTIN: I think the Fudgie the Whale does like a little frown face. It's like a, it's like what if Fudgie — y'all know who Fudgie the Whale is, right?
JACK: No!
SYLVIA: He has a cake, right?
AUSTIN: Yeah, the cake.
KEITH: I'm not surprised that Jack doesn't know —
AUSTIN: Yeah, me either.
KEITH: That Fudgie the Whale is a cake — famous cake character.
JACK: What are you talking —?!
AUSTIN: Fudgie the Whale.
KEITH: There's a, there's a cake brand called Carvel ice cream cakes. —
AUSTIN and DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: And there's a famous Carvel ice cream cake character whose name is Fudgie the Whale. You can buy a Fudgie the Whale cake.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: It's a famous cake.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: Fudgie the Whale, I'm looking at it.
AUSTIN: You know. Yeah, he's fun. You know.
JACK: [outburst] Oh! He looks quite nice —
SYLVIA: [laughing]
JACK: Doesn't he?
AUSTIN: So I'm imagining that but like, I'm imagining that but like an app — like Twitter bought Fudgie the Whale and switched to being the whale website instead of the bird website.
KEITH: Right. And it's W-H-A-L, and they say it's not a whale.
AUSTIN: Right. [chuckling] It's not a whale.
KEITH: It's not a whale.
AUSTIN: The way that Twitter says it's not a bird. Don't call it the Twitter bird.
KEITH: Right.
DRE: Gosh.
AUSTIN: Uh, okay, so now it's red, and instead of a smiley face, it has a big frowny face. And it's like slow, it's like moving very slowly. [laughing] Anyway. So I'm slowed and immobilized, is that what this is? This fucking witch —
DRE: You're slowed your next turn, and then you become immobilized, and then you become stunned.
AUSTIN: In all —
KEITH: Oh, that's bad.
AUSTIN: All next turn?
DRE: Uh... no.
AUSTIN: Oh —
KEITH: Turn after turn.
DRE: It's one after the other, one after the other.
AUSTIN: Oh, it's one after the other. So I have, basically, I have two turns to get somewhere safe for... don't — where I'm going to definitely be stunned.
DRE: Mm-hm. Basically.
KEITH: Or, two turns to... do the other two ways —
AUSTIN: Kill the witch. To win.
KEITH: Kill the witch, or can you also become adjacent to the witch, the way that you can become adjacent to the gumdrop thing?
AUSTIN: Oh, that's a good question. Is there a way to break this effect, or is this just going to happen, Dre?
DRE: It just happens.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: I mean, you know, hey, if you blow up the lady —
AUSTIN: Okay. So yeah, that is a way to do it.
KEITH: So you can kill it. Okay. But you can't tag it, like you could tag the gumdrop.
AUSTIN: Right, I can't tag up. Right, yes, yes. I can't tag up on the base.
KEITH: Jack could tag up on the grandpa gumdrop to get rid of, uh, the heat.
AUSTIN: Yeah, the heat virus.
DRE: Yeah. Uh, so, the, the green mech moves back into the forest. Uh... and I think you see another kind of like, arcing, harpoon looking thing shoot out across the trees, and it lands into — this isn't a cable, it's just another, it's just like a dart, almost —
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah.
DRE: And it lands in the shoulder of the other gumdrop that's here. Uh, and it starts — I think the best way to describe it is, it looks like it's phasing in and out of existence.
KEITH: Oh, no, it went Kaio-ken!
JACK: Uh-oh.
SYLVIA, AUSTIN, JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: It's too fast! I can't track its movements!
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Hey, can, uh, can any of us do things like this?
KEITH (as TEASEL): No, I just shoot a gun.
DRE: [laughing]
SYLVIA: What?
KEITH (as TEASEL): It doesn't even — they don't even explode!
AUSTIN: Right, you can't —
SYLVIA: I'm jammed, I can't hear you.
AUSTIN: They can't hear anything.
KEITH: [laughing]
DRE: “What's going on over there?”
AUSTIN: I love your vision of this, this whole, this whole turn. Because it's like, you shot a million missiles, and then all your shit got jammed immediately, and then you saw me drag some bullshit across the map and start beating the shit out of it.
SYLVIA: Zark, Zark's like eating a snack right now.
AUSTIN: Yeah, uh-huh! You're like, this is a fun, this is a fun TV.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Dudes teleporting all over the place.
DRE: Uh-huh.
KEITH: I'm tense, but I'm also hungry.
SYLVIA: I think the way that they're seeing is they've got like a periscope —
AUSTIN: [laughing] Uh-huh.
SYLVIA: That lets them see things in their immediate vicinity, when this happens.
AUSTIN: That's so funny.
SYLVIA: And they're just — like that, and like an energy bar.
AUSTIN: Great.
DRE: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Watching.
DRE: Uh... so I think as this, as we go into round 4 of the combat, I think it starts with Deanthe coming out of the train —
AUSTIN: Mmm.
DRE: Leading the 3, uh, Tress into that kind of passenger compartment that is, that is in their mech.
AUSTIN: Right.
DRE: Uh, and kind of like saddling back up. And... she starts to kind of break off. And as she's leaving, she sends you coordinates for a rendezvous point.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
DRE: Uh... I think, earlier, that, if I'm remembering correctly, Kaliope told you all that basically, after you all left on this mission, she was going to be gathering up the people of the town —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: To go meet up in a place where, presumably, Millennium Break was coming to, to pick them up. Uh... and so I think, her kind of, what she says to you all as she's breaking out of here is basically like, uh... 
DRE (as DEANTHE): I'm getting out of here, we need to split up, so that way they will follow you, instead of following me.
AUSTIN: Right.
DRE: And I'm also curious, so — Martilla, you had said that, you know, that — your kind of approach to all this was like, okay, this is probably a misunderstanding — you know, the... the Pact probably didn't actually take these people. Uh... what is, how has her attitude changed, or not changed, I guess, seeing, uh, you know, because I'm assuming that like, you know, the image of like, what... what Teasel's drone — you know, that's probably being like, shared amongst you all, right? Like there's like a screen that pops up on your HUD with the broadcast of that drone.
AUSTIN: Yeah...
DRE: Uh, so it does this change, like, her approach, or her like, calculus at all?
JACK: I... I would love to live in a world, especially in a world like the one we're picturing, where being presented with evidence that your people, who you have sworn series loyalty to, are, uh, committing a great wrongdoing, makes you immediately go, “oh, I must be [chuckling] on the wrong side!”
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: I... I, I, I don't know that this alters her calculus in any particular way. I think she goes, “well, so maybe they were roughing them up. But, you know, you have to break eggs to get what you need in the war.” I, I think that on some level there is relief that the initial goal of this mission have been carried off. Because, as far as she's concerned, it's just become an immediate bloodthirsty shitshow, where she is now having to preserve herself as best as she can. Uh... but I don't think that she's necessarily like, “well, Millennium Break has a point.”
AUSTIN: I do want to, I do want to raise the possibility, Jack, that she could. Uh... and the line that I want to draw is, she is not Clementine Kesh. She is a marginalized person inside of a, inside of an empire that has found a way to be part of its tyrannical boot. But has aligned herself with the so-called reformist faction. Like, we're not... we, I'm not saying that she should do this. I'm not giving you, I don't want to say you, like — if this is the characterization you're happy with, you should be, you should commit to it. But like, the world of revolution, the history of revolution, is filled with soldiers who said, “you know what? No. Fuck it, actually.” And in fact, that was often when, you know, things would end up turning, right? Is that like, military soldiers — you know, members of the military would start to side with revolutionaries at a certain point, right?
JACK: Right, yeah, right —
AUSTIN: And that's always, you know, precarious for many reasons, but...
JACK: Yeah. I...
AUSTIN: I just want to be clear that in my —
JACK: It's, it's — no, you're...
AUSTIN: Narrative space of what this show is, there is space for the Ashen soldier of the Pact to decide, “wait a second, have I been wrong about all this?” And I'm, I'm with you that maybe this is not who Martilla is. Uh... but I don't want to close the door on that style of storytelling.
JACK: No, no. Uh, I appreciate that. Especially because, like you say, you know, are there these — there's that very, there's that great story that, uh, I read in China Mieville's account of the Russian Revolution, of the cavalry guards outside the palace not wanting to switch sides completely, but, instead of attacking the revolutionaries, just stood motionless on their horses —
AUSTIN: Right, right.
JACK: And let the revolutionaries crawl beneath the horses.
AUSTIN: [laughing]
JACK: Uh, to get into the palace. Which is like, that's great. Uh, but I don't know whether this hard-line Pact artillery officer is...
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: I think the difference between her and Clem is that the door is closed and bolted, for Clementine. There is no — Clementine is too stubborn and too stupid to be... to have any room in her heart for a kind of revolutionary spirit, that does nothing other than put her on the throne. I think that Martilla might... Martilla could make this change of heart. I just don't know that, you know, drenched in sweat from inside the...
AUSTIN: Mm-hm.
JACK: Cockpit of Under The Radar in this moment, is, is the moment for that kind of a turn. The germ of an idea might begin working in her head, as she sees these prisoners be brought out, just as it began working in her head when Kaliope was like, you know, “I'll stake my reputation on this.” Uh, but I don't think it's enough right now.
DRE: So, my question to you is, are you comfortable with this plan of splitting up? Are you comfortable with letting them go? Because if anyone is in a position to stop Deanthe from leaving this battlefield, it is you.
JACK: [pause][sighs] No. I don't think that she would turn and fire on Deon. Deon?
DRE: Deanthe.
JACK: Deanthe. Uh... I don't think that she would turn and fire on them. I, I, I don't know that it would be like... like, a red mist is [chuckling] a red mist has descended on her, and I don't know that she is going to, in this moment, go, “but now I'm going to take the, I'm going to continue the mission as the Pact were doing it.” Especially if, as we said, there is this like, weird, nagging feeling at her of like, well, maybe they shouldn't have been in that train.
DRE: Mmm, sure. So, I think... as, as, uh, as Deanthe is leaving, they send you kind of like, telemetry or map data. Uh... and again, I don't know if everyone has like, the HUD to do this, but I'm imagining as almost like, old... like vector, like, style graphics games. Like I don't even remember what this game is called, but I have very distinct childhood memories of playing like, some sort of tank combat game that was all vector graphics based, on like an old Mac.
JACK: Oh yeah.
DRE: Uh, and they had like, kind of like map overviews at the start. And I think there is, on this map, there is basically like, one line, which is like a red line. And it is the path that Deanthe's taking, which is kind of like a longer, arcing loop off to the east. And then your all's line is heading straight north from this train yard, through a ravine. So basically, what Deanthe is kind of telling you... and again, I mean, you don't have to do this, you can go after her, right? Is that the plan that they are proposing is that basically you all take the most direct route to this kind of rendezvous point, presumably kind of drawing fire as you go, allowing them to, to arc around and kind of meet back up with you.
AUSTIN: Mm.
JACK: Hm. So, we act as the, we act as the distraction to enable...
DRE: Yes. Yeah.
SYLVIA: Uh, question about when Keith found one of the people we were looking for. That was just one, right?
DRE: No, these were all three.
AUSTIN, KEITH: These were all three.
KEITH: We got all three.
DRE: All three were there, yeah.
SYLVIA: It was all three? Okay I wasn't, I —
AUSTIN: We gotta get out.
DRE: Yeah. Like, effectively, mechanically speaking, this mission is over, you have completed the mission.
AUSTIN: Okay.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: I am more or less figuring — because like, in my mind, like, we don't need to mechanically play you all getting out of here, because that's... there are some missions where that happens, but this is —
DRE and AUSTIN: Not one of those.
AUSTIN: Gotcha. Okay. Cool.
KEITH: Yeah, we're already like, kind of really far away from them. We're like out of their range already.
DRE: Yeah. So, I mean, like, what I'm basically picturing, right, is again, just to play up the scope of how big the Under The Radar is —
AUSTIN: [chuckling]
DRE: My image is that basically, like, Under The Radar just kind of plows through this train yard, and the three of you all kind of like take cover behind it. Uh... and just are like —
AUSTIN: Can I join —
DRE: And just are like laying down covering fire.
AUSTIN: Can I join Keith with — can I just — because I can't move in a turn basically.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Or like basically immediately — as Under the Radar moves past me, I just want to harpoon up into its side —
KEITH: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: And grapple myself on there —
JACK: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: And hang on the way Keith is. The way, sorry, the way Mayor is.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah. Totally. Uh, okay. Yeah. So, basically, you all kind of — and again, I'm just imagining — you're running through this train. You probably... there's like a, a guard tower at the northern end of this base that you probably like, take a chunk out of as you move through. Uh, and you head off through kind of this forest that's here. Uh... so, as you move through the forest eventually — and I'm imagining, there's no direct combat along the way, but there's probably lots of, like, you know, artillery blowing up behind you, bullets whizzing overhead, basically. Eventually, the trees start to, uh,... not break, isn't the right word, but basically start to thin out. And you open up into overlooking a ravine. Let me...
KEITH: Is there time, in between this area, for me to have stabilized? Like if I was magged onto —
DRE: No.
KEITH: No?
DRE: Nope.
AUSTIN: Damn.
DRE: Basically, you, you are on the run. Oop. I hit pull selected players, and I did not select any players.
AUSTIN: Uh, I have a follow up question, which is — ooh, look at this, look at — oh my — fuck this!
JACK: Woah, holy shit!
AUSTIN: Well, this is no good, is it?
SYLVIA: Uh...
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: My follow up quick question is, did that virus — did our viruses clear? Those are —
DRE: Yes. Yeah.
AUSTIN: Okay. Okay.
KEITH: Oh, no, it's, this thing is really big.
DRE: I will say, like, yeah, after combat, any like statuses or anything that you had, you have time to like, fix that as you're running through.
AUSTIN: Okay. Just like heat is the same —
JACK: Does my turret drone come back?
DRE: Yeah, heat, HP, structure — all of that is the same.
AUSTIN: Okay.
JACK: Cool.
KEITH: Even if I could have theoretically mag-clamped myself to Under The Radar, and just literally sat there and...
DRE: I mean, basically, one, that wouldn't be enough time.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Because like — I'm trying to — there are actual hour layouts here. Because I mean, it's basically, I can't remember the Lancer term for it, but it's basically like, kind of the classic D&D difference between a short rest and a full rest, right?
KEITH: Sure.
DRE: So, and you've been, you know, thematically speaking, you are like on the run during this time. And so, not only would you — yes, you would be outside of your mech. But you would be... on top of a very large, fast-moving vehicle, that has explosions and bullets flying by constantly [laughing], trying to, you know, change the oil on your mech. Probably not, probably not a safe thing to do.
KEITH: Oh, does stabilize happen outside your mech?
DRE: Yeah. No, I mean it's the equivalent of you doing... well, no, so, stabilize is an action you take in combat. Yeah. But yeah.
JACK: Is this, is this a new scene?
DRE: Mm-hm.
JACK: Okay, cool.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, totally.
KEITH: Oh, this is terrible.
DRE: Yeah. So, as, as you break through the treeline and you come across like, this, this overhang that is looking over a ravine, this ravine is... it starts off as like, kind of two smaller splits with rivers in them, that eventually come together and like, join together at like a delta area, and move further north. But, you can see that, at the, at the tip, where those rivers come together, there is... maybe the first time, I don't know, has Martilla ever seen a mech that is also as big as hers?
JACK: Uh... maybe, uh, uh, she's seen mechs from her own fleet. I suppose this is from her own fleet.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: The great hangars on the massive orbital carriers or whatever that store the heavy artillery mechs, uh, she would have seen other artillery mechs in. But, in a space that big, and when you're so focused as a mechanic on your own mech, you know, you'd be sort of like, “well, here I am with the big guys.”
DRE: Yeah, gotcha. So, yeah, at, at the kind of the point at this delta where the rivers meet and join together, there is an enormous mech that is waiting for you. Uh, and as you take in the scene on either side of the ravine, it's kind of like — I don't want to say stairstep, because I don't think that's properly describing like, how tall it is. But there's like, different levels of like, bridges going up the side of these ravines on either side. Uh, and you can kind of see multiple mechs waiting for you, and there's been like erected some hastily-put-together like, barriers and stuff, providing cover.
AUSTIN: Oh, fuck.
DRE: So, the sit-rep for this mission is called Gauntlet. Uh... and —
AUSTIN: Bad. No.
DRE: Uh-huh. Yeah. So basically, you are running this gauntlet. The way that you win this mission is that... you all need to be in the extraction zone —
AUSTIN: Oh, man.
DRE: At the north end of this map, uh... by the end of the 6th turn.
AUSTIN: No.
SYLVIA: Oh my god.
DRE: Actually, let me double-check. No, it's 8th turn.
AUSTIN: I was going to say —
DRE: Sorry. Not 6th turn.
AUSTIN: I don't know that Jack can move that fast.
JACK: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Uh, this is it, though. Jack, this is, this is the pitch for your — this is it, as far as I can tell. This is Hyphan commandos lost in the jungle —
JACK: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Like, barely surviving, if ever there was that.
JACK: Oh yeah. Boy. What's this mech, what's this big fucker called?
KEITH: Oh!
DRE: Uh... this big fucker?
JACK: Yeah.
DRE: Uh...
SYLVIA: That's — that's the RX7-bigfucker.
AUSTIN: [laughing] that's the RX —
DRE: Yeah, that's the [chuckling] RXC-bigfucker.
JACK: [laughing]
DRE: Here's the thing. I don't know, I didn't come up with a name for this one, because it is 1 of 1, right? I imagine that —
AUSTIN: I mean... yeah.
DRE: That the Under the Radar is a 1 of 1. This is a 1 of 1. So I imagine... maybe, I don't know the name of the mech, but I bet that Martilla, you probably know the name of the person who pilots this mech. And his name is Saxton Clash.
AUSTIN: This motherfucker.
SYLVIA: Oh my god.
KEITH: When you said this is the pitch, Austin, I thought what you meant was, this is the pitch for the viability of the harpoon drag strategy —
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Oh... [laughing] I mean, it is, also, in a way, isn't it?
JACK: [laughing]
SYLVIA: God.
AUSTIN: No, no, I was thinking of, of Jack saying, the exact thing that was in that pitch was, “a story about a squad of Hyphan commandos who have been besieged in a [chuckling] square mile of forest.” And, boy... all right, just, again, for the people at home, you described the river coming to a kind of split, here. There are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 enemy mechs, is that right? Oh, 6. 6 — 7? 7. 8.
DRE: Uh...
AUSTIN: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Three on the weft side, three on the east side, and then  Big Fucker down the middle. Uh... on top of — 2 bubblegums, little bubblegums, little guys. We've got sort of, what if someone gave Scyther four legs, and a radar unit.
DRE: Sure.
JACK: Yeah.
AUSTIN: That's the kind of vibe for me. I'm getting real, like, insectoid, mantis, mantoid vibe.
JACK: Yeah.
KEITH: Yeah, that's definitely mantis.
DRE: Yeah, those are called Zenith-C Arrays, are the name of that.
AUSTIN: Okay. Great. And then, what do we got here? Boom boxes?
JACK: Are these little artillery boys?
KEITH: Yeah.
DRE: This is a Zenith-C Umbrella.
AUSTIN: Oh, an Umbrella.
KEITH: It looks like a Paras from Pokemon.
AUSTIN: It does look like a Paras from Pokemon, if Paras from Pokemon had infinite rockets it could shoot. [chuckling]
KEITH: [laughing]
SYLVIA: It's not that many rockets...
AUSTIN: Fair enough, fair enough, yeah. But there's two of them.
KEITH: Paras and Parasect can both learn infinite rockets from a TM.
AUSTIN: Right, right right right right. 
DRE: Right right.
SYLVIA: TM stands for technical mech.
KEITH: Yeah.
JACK: [chuckling]
KEITH: Or tons of missiles.
DRE, SYLVIA, JACK: [laughing]
JACK: Saxton Clash, uh, takes up a whole table in the, uh, in the canteen on the big artillery deployment ship that I'm on. And it's him and all his devotees, and they're all, you know, playing a big drinking game all the time —
AUSTIN: That motherfucker.
JACK: Or whatever. He like, leans back on his big chair, and he's a real... Martilla does not like Saxton Clash.
AUSTIN: How many pairs of sunglasses does Saxton Clash have?
DRE: Oh, man...
JACK: Saxton Clash — well, here's the thing. It's just one, but he has a bunch of copies, in case he loses them.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh. That motherfucker wears Cartier Buffs, for sure.
JACK: Nope, not in case he loses them.
DRE: Uh-huh?
JACK: He gives them away, to devotees.
AUSTIN: Wow.
JACK: To be like, you know when you, like a, like a pitcher's glove or something. It's like, oh, these are the sunglasses —
DRE: Oh yeah, when you're in the Clash crew.
JACK: When you're in the Clash crew, yeah!
DRE: The Clash crew. Yeah.
JACK: There's a big poster that says, “Saxton Clash, his mech makes a splash,” or something.
AUSTIN: Oh yeah, there, it is.
DRE: Ugh —
AUSTIN: I don't like — you made that sound because you know what it does, didn't you? I'm worried.
DRE: Don't worry about it.
JACK: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: All right.
JACK: Uh, so how quickly do we have to get to the extraction point?
DRE: You have 8 turns.
JACK: Oh, easy. Easy.
AUSTIN: What's your movement, Jack?
JACK: … it's 3.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Okay, so wait — 1, 2, 3 —
KEITH: You can get in 8 turns, even.
AUSTIN: Okay, we gotta do the thing.
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: I gotta [chuckling] just drag you.
KEITH: [laughing]
JACK: Here's the thing. Now, if… I have enough time, to probably obliterate this guy, with the apocalypse rail.
AUSTIN: I don't know that that's true, Jack.
JACK: But I can't —
DRE: I don't know if you do, yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah. I don't think — you, you think — I love that you've called it the apocalypse rail, I love that the game has called it the apocalypse rail. I don't know that thing does enough to one-shot this thing that's as big as you. Would you be obliterated by the apocalypse rail? And I know that NPCs don't have the same amount of structure as player characters, I know this.
KEITH: This thing definitely has, has another thing of structure, right?
AUSTIN: It definitely has an extra structure point, maybe 2.
DRE: Who's to say?
JACK: Let me see... the apocalypse rail would, would kill me instantly, yeah.
AUSTIN: No, it wouldn't. No it wouldn't! Even fully charged, it's, what is it, 4D6 damage?
JACK: Yeah.
AUSTIN: What's that actually, what's the average of that?
DRE: Like 12.
KEITH: 12.
AUSTIN: 12! that's not going to obliterate you instantly.
KEITH: Wait, is there a bonus damage?
JACK: No, no, I was forgetting how dice work.
KEITH: [laughing]
AUSTIN: You know, maybe you roll really well, and it obliterates him, you know?
DRE: That's a mood.
AUSTIN: You know? It's possible. Certainly, if they were all together, it would be really good. Or if we wanted to, like, flatten the zone — and it shred it. It would do great. We should, I would love for you to apocalypse rail this thing.
JACK: I suppose what I'm saying is, because of how my mech works, [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
JACK: I am most useful when I'm firing.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: And, I cannot fire and move, conceivably.
KEITH: But you can fire and drag.
JACK: So the question is — do I want to be put somewhere [chuckling] by Austin?
AUSTIN: Well, no, you have to get across. There is not a win without —
JACK: No, no, no, no, no. What I'm saying is, Austin — if you drag me to the extraction zone early —
AUSTIN: I don't think... if I'm in the extraction zone and you're in the extraction zone, we all need to be in the extraction zone and leaving.
JACK: Okay —
SYLVIA: Well, do we have to be there, like, I guess I'm confused about the, like — do we have to wait all 8 turns, or just get there?
DRE: Uh, you all, all need to be in there, at the same time.
SYLVIA: Okay.
AUSTIN: We just need to all punch in there as soon as we can. And like, maybe we can beat this big motherfucker and just walk down the middle. But...
KEITH: My thing —
AUSTIN: But every turn, you just need to be getting closer to the front. Is my thought, Jack.
JACK: Yes. Yes. Then, I'm probably going to be doing more walking than shooting.
AUSTIN: You literally don't have a gun that's a... that's a move and shoot?
JACK: I have an assault, I have an assault rifle —
AUSTIN: Right, right.
JACK: But I am built for standing still.
AUSTIN: Well, no, you can ordinance shot your siege cannon, and then move after, right?
JACK: Nope. It's a super-heavy weapon.
AUSTIN: Oh, right.
DRE: Yeah, so you could still move, but you wouldn't be able to move a second time.
AUSTIN: Okay.
KEITH: Uh, there is another dimension to this, also. Which is that, because I was not able to repair —
AUSTIN: Right, right.
KEITH: In the last thing, because we ended it, uh, I can... I, I have one shot on my DMR before I'm capped on heat.
JACK: Ooh...
KEITH: And also, I have 3 out of 14 health.
JACK: Oh god, yeah.
AUSTIN: You're in a bad place.
JACK: Well, if I can —
KEITH: So I need to heal, basically I need to repair twice.
JACK: Yeah. I can set up covering fire —
AUSTIN: Wait, why do you need to repair twice?
KEITH: Because I need to, I need to repair my structure and my heat.
JACK: Uh, no, they happen simultaneously. Don't they, Dre?
AUSTIN: Yeah —
KEITH: No, it's either, it's either/or, I thought. You either repair —
DRE: Let me — hold on, let me check. Uh... mech actions... full actions, stabilize. Use 1 repair to regain HP or clear heat.
AUSTIN: Oh, fuck.
KEITH: Yeah.
DRE: I mean, here's the, here's the other thing. Like, you don't die when you go down to 0 HP. You just lose a point of structure.
AUSTIN: Right.
KEITH: Right. I, I may be a little gunshy about it, because last time, before you reminded me about bracing, I immediately rolled a 1 out of 1 die on my stress.
JACK: [chuckles]
DRE: Sure.
KEITH: On my stress — so I'm like, well, I will probably... I will probably make that roll, and then the, and then melt down. Or, but then the other thing is, if I make that roll, best case scenario, I'm impaired for a turn, which is like, almost as bad, if not worse, than just taking that turn to repair.
DRE: Sure. But that is not what always happens on —
KEITH: Right.
DRE: On structure roll. Like, Lancer is supposed to be balanced. Like, you are expected to take structure and heat damage throughout.
KEITH: Right.
DRE: Like, Lancer is balanced to be that you basically have 2 to 4 combats before you get to a, like, full repair point.
AUSTIN: Right. So we're going to take some hits. Yeah.
DRE: Yeah, you are expected to, to take structure.
AUSTIN: We need to start the count on this.
KEITH: Okay. Uh, but am I right or wrong that the best case scenario of rolling stress damage is being impaired for the next turn?
DRE: Yes.
KEITH: Right, okay.
AUSTIN: But like, then we're impaired for a turn, and it's not the end of the world.
DRE: Right, yeah. And there's also —
KEITH: Well, I'm just saying that —
AUSTIN: It sucks.
DRE: It is also better than your mech instantly blowing up, or...
KEITH: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: I'm just saying that if I have a chance to repair, I, I feel like it's sort of —
DRE: Sure.
KEITH: Better to repair before I have to — if then I end up still taking the structure damage, then it's fine. But like, being impaired is so bad that I might as well preempt that by repairing twice. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe, maybe I should just —
DRE: I mean, impaired, all it does is that you basically take an, an extra difficulty on everything that you do. Which is not great, right? But it's not like you can't move or you can't do anything.
KEITH: Right. Oh, I thought it also — I thought I also couldn't move. Okay.
DRE: Uh-uh.
KEITH: Okay. So I can move when I'm impaired.
DRE: Yeah. Immobilized is, you can't move.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh. So do you want me to drag you guys forward in this first turn? I, here's the other thing, is, we did figure out that, while you're being dragged, you can charge your shit, right?
JACK: Uh, I looked it up. I don't think that... I think — it says, if you move even involuntarily —
AUSTIN: Oh, if it says even involuntarily, then yeah, then no, then it doesn't work.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
SYLVIA: Uh, just like an order question, should we let Keith heal up before we move the Under the Radar, because it is like —
KEITH: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Cover?
JACK: Yeah, that's great. Well, also, Austin —
AUSTIN: Yeah, I was going to ask — should I get in front of you, Jack? Because —
DRE: Also, you all can rearrange yourselves within this deployment zone as you see fit.
JACK: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Because my thinking is, even if I just grab you on my first — I can't do shit this first move, no matter what anyway. So if my whole first move is just moving you up 5 spots... then you will have moved before your turn, do you see what I'm saying?
JACK: Yeah. If it changes your calculus at all, I read through how my cannons work, and I am able to make a, a, a move of 3 turns and then spend my whole turn firing the super-heavy weapon.
AUSTIN: Right.
JACK: Uh... so I will be able to move. I'll just move, I'll be able to move and shoot my siege weapon. It'll just happen very slowly.
AUSTIN: Totally. I'm just thinking about — my real fear is like, the only way you get across this is if we get, right now, we need you to move every turn in the right direction. So I'm just thinking, and again, I literally can't do shit in this first turn —
JACK: We just make the...
AUSTIN: Because I'm so far away from everybody.
JACK: Yeah.
AUSTIN: So like, I may as well be in front of you by one square.
JACK: Yeah, definitely.
AUSTIN: Grab you, drag you forward, and we go from there.
JACK: As insurance, right?
AUSTIN: Right, exactly. And also like, I don't need to spend a core point to do this. As long as, Dre, it's okay for me to grapple one of my own people, right?
DRE: Uh... which, which system are you using to do this with?
AUSTIN: I'm grappling using the nano whatever, that let's me be the equal, an equal —
DRE: The synthetic muscle netting?
AUSTIN: Any size — the synthetic muscle netting, yeah, yeah, yeah.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: So as long as I can do that, that means I should be able to do it. Also, my lifting and dragging capacity is doubled.
DRE: Mm-hm. Yeah.
AUSTIN: So it should be okay to — okay.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
AUSTIN: Do we still want to start Keith, so that Keith can heal?
KEITH: Yes.
SYLVIA: Yeah, I'm fine with that.
AUSTIN: So then, can you scoot back one, uh, uh, Jack?
JACK: Yes.
AUSTIN: Or like slide in some direction, so that I can get 1 in front?
JACK: Yes. Let me just see...
SYLVIA: Do you need me to move?
JACK: I might, yeah, sorry. I think I might also need Keith to move.
DRE: [chuckling] Oop, excuse me, pardon me, excuse me — excuse me, pardon me. Yeah.
AUSTIN: [laughing]
KEITH: Hold — help! Hey, hey, hold!
SYLVIA: Do all of my hexes need to be in the appointment zone, or just my feet?
JACK: [chuckling]
DRE: Just — just your feetsies, yeah.
AUSTIN: Just feetsies.
SYLVIA: Actually, I have a question before I set my deployment thing, for the crew. Uh, just in terms of — I was thinking about how we get here for the non-giant mechs.
DRE: [laughing]
SYLVIA: And it feels like we need to pick either the left or right to go on, and I was wondering if you guys had any inclination on which we should focus on. Because I feel like it would be easier to take out a side and get in, than it would be to go down the middle and be in the firing range of both missile people.
AUSTIN: Right. That's not a bad idea.
SYLVIA: Or do we split up, and have two people try and take out the missile launchers so they don't blast Austin and Jack going down the middle?
AUSTIN: I mean, we could try to go around, instead, right? We could —
SYLVIA: True.
AUSTIN: We could do, you know, this way... and ignore the big motherfucker.
DRE: I should say, I talked about how these are like, different tiers of...
AUSTIN: Oh, yes.
DRE: Of height as they go up. To go up these... uh, to go up, to like climb up these, is of a height enough that if you don't have like, specific flying stuff, that's probably going to take some kind of agility check or something.
AUSTIN: Right. So that means this big motherfucker is... we're going to have to get past him for the non-flying units.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Sorry, Saxton Clash. Yeah. I could drag —
DRE: You can, you can call him  Big Fucker.
AUSTIN:  Big Fucker. I could drag Martilla up to, as far as here, and then, and then we could just like, who all can move and fly, who all can get up in this zone?
SYLVIA: I thought I could. But I guess I can't.
KEITH: I don't think I can. It doesn't seem like a thing that works for my mag clamps, which said specifically —
AUSTIN: Oh, right.
KEITH: It says specifically, you treat all solid surface as flat ground for the purposes of movement.
AUSTIN: A cliff face is solid — is flat — is —
DRE: No, I — yes. Your mag clamps can definitely let you —
KEITH: Oh, cliff face. We're talking about cliff face. I misunderstood you. I thought you were talking about the river.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Yeah, no.
KEITH: So then, then yes, then I can use, I can go up the cliff face.
DRE: Yeah, totally. Uh, I think we are approaching needing to get off the boat territory.
AUSTIN: Yeah, let's do it.
SYLVIA: Okay. Yep.
KEITH: All right. I'm going to repair, how does that work? It says I spend 1 point of... 1 point of repair? I don't really know what that means, though.
DRE: Yep. So, on your sheet, under your mech stats, you have a repair cap.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Which is, it says, repairs, 2 out of 2. So just knock that down by 1. So now you're at 1 out of 2.
KEITH: Okay. All right. And then, how much HP do I get back?
DRE: Full. You're full.
KEITH: Oh, great. So, I'm up to 14, and then I'm just going to take that heat when I attack.
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: Uh, I can use a skirmish, right? I can do that, still.
DRE: You would need to overcharge.
AUSTIN: Because this is a full.
DRE: Because to stabilize is a full action.
KEITH: Okay. So it's 1 full, or 2 quick, right.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: But, you could overcharge.
KEITH: And, so, if I were to overcharge, and... let me... ordinance has to be used first, right? I can't use a full...
DRE: Uh, I mean... you can, I would say, you could... use your weapon, and then overcharge to get a second action. And then to do that as a full action. I don't know if that's technically in the rules, but to me, I think that fits, the way that they let you break up most other actions.
KEITH: Yeah. I'm just trying to, sort of trying to fudge like, I can go 1 over my heat, or I can go 2 over my heat, and it doesn't matter, because if I'm going over my heat anyway and it goes back down to zero, so might as well get all the heat I can out of my heat.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Is what I'm thinking.
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: Uh, so, if, if it's going to be allowed, then I'm going to use my, uh, heavy railgun rifle, along with my, uh... uh, ba ba ba... my crack shot and zero in.
DRE: Sure, because those are just protocols, right?
KEITH: Those are protocols, yep. So I basically get one from crack shot, and lose one from zero in, to do an extra bonus damage.
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: Uh, and, I do get another, I get a plus-1 from perfect targeting.
DRE: Okay.
KEITH: I get the possible reroll from neurolink, if I want.
DRE: Who are you attacking, by the way?
KEITH: Uh... do you think I should attack the big thing, or should I get the adds? This could possibly do a lot of damage.
AUSTIN: Great question. I'm going to go, I'm going to go with the right, if we... if you want to support that direction. Uh, but...
KEITH: Okay.
AUSTIN: I mean, I could go to the left instead, but it's got the most [unintelligible]
KEITH: It, it is possible that I could accidentally take out a big chunk of health from the big thing.
AUSTIN: Do it. I mean, yeah.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: [laughing] accidentally.
AUSTIN: I would love for that to be the truth.
DRE: I will also say, everybody except for the big guy is in hard cover.
AUSTIN: Okay.
KEITH: Oh. Then, perfect.
AUSTIN: Oh yeah, I see those. That's hard cover.
KEITH: That makes it really easy for me to decide to do that. Uh... so I am going to roll that. It is... uh... uh... I can't remember, did we decide if perfect targeting is included in my base roll? Death’s head gains an additional plus-1 to all ranged attack rolls?
DRE: Yes.
AUSTIN: If it's in the sheet it is, I remember it happening for us before.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: So then, I don't get anything from any other sources, it's just a straight roll.
AUSTIN: Hey! That's a hit... I think? Or, you didn't target —
DRE: That's a 14... that's okay. No, that's a hit.
AUSTIN: Nice.
DRE: Nice.
KEITH: Nice. So then, I also do another D6, because I got that damage from zero in.
AUSTIN: Ooh.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: And that's —
DRE: Can you roll that D6?
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Is that also armor piercing, because it's from the same railgun?
KEITH: Yes.
AUSTIN: Love that. Wait, what if we just fuck this thing up?
KEITH: Oh, nope. I'm wrong. It's on a critical hit.
DRE: Oh. Yeah, okay.
KEITH: So — but, I can reroll.
DRE: Do you have to take the result no matter what?
KEITH: Must keep the second result, yes.
DRE: Okay. So, yeah, you can reroll if you want to.
KEITH: [sighs]
AUSTIN: Ooh... I'm worried. 7 damage is not bad. I guess... what are we looking at? You're looking for an 18 or above? Or 19?
KEITH: I can get, on average, I could get another — oh, right, because it, because it's —
AUSTIN: A crit is just 20-plus.
KEITH: [unintelligible] I rolled 3 plus 4.
AUSTIN: Right.
KEITH: A crit is just 20-plus and I rolled 14.
DRE: I don't think you... you also didn't add any of your accuracy stuff in there, either.
KEITH: Uh, I don't have any other accuracy stuff for this gun.
DRE: Oh, okay.
AUSTIN: Wait, I thought you said you get like a plus 6, you get plus —
DRE: I thought you have a whole bunch of stuff.
KEITH: Well, it, it, we — so, I have the neurolink, or the perfect targeting. Perfect in targeting.
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: But it said, we, we decided that that's already baked-in.
AUSTIN: I don't think it was, though.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: And so I have —
AUSTIN: Because —
KEITH: No?
DRE: No, because you did get a plus-2 here.
KEITH: Yeah, what's that guy?
AUSTIN: Oh, oh, right, that's plus-2, not plus-2 accuracy.
KEITH: Right.
DRE: Oh, and that's, that's, yeah, that's, so that's, just from... I think because you did a basic attack, instead of rolling it with the weapon itself, you didn't get your stuff added. Because that plus-2, I think, is just from your grit. So you should have another 1, so that's 15, and then however much accuracy you're rolling with, you need to roll that many D6s.
KEITH: Okay. Uh... I don't think I am rolling with any other accuracy though.
DRE: Uh...
KEITH: I got one from stable and steady, and I lost one from zero in.
AUSTIN: Oh, you spent that one, I see.
DRE: Okay.
KEITH: Right, exactly.
DRE: Oh, okay. Gotcha, gotcha.
KEITH: So you spend one, you trade one in order to get, uh, 1D6 bonus damage on a crit.
DRE: Okay. So actually, you rolled a 15, basically, in actuality.
KEITH: So I'm not going to, I'm not going to reroll that. I'm going to take the 7.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: That ain't bad.
KEITH: Yeah.
DRE: Gotcha. And then you're repairing yourself.
KEITH: Yeah. I'm repairing myself back up to full, and then that also does bring me to 8 heat.
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: Which, which, uh, kills me. What do I do? I put my heat down to zero, and then what do I roll? I put stress at 3?
DRE: Gotcha. Uh... yep. And now you need to roll... 1D6. [dice roll] 4. Uh... okay, the power plant in your mech becomes unstable, beginning to eject jets of plasma. Your mech becomes exposed, taking double kinetic energy and explosive damage until the status is cleared.
JACK: Oh god.
SYLVIA: Okay.
KEITH: How do I clear it? Is it end of next turn?
DRE: That is... uh... so, if you, if you are, basically what you just did is how you clear it [laughing].
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
KEITH: Oh, so I have to repair again.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: You just have to stabilize. You don't have to spend a repair.
DRE: You just have to stabilize. Right?
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Yeah, you don't have to spend a repair. Yeah.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: You only spent a repair because you were, uh, you repaired your HP.
KEITH: Fixing damage, yeah.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
KEITH: Okay. So, and I'm tossing it, Austin, to you, is that what we decided?
AUSTIN: I mean, you're tossing it to the enemy, unfortunately.
DRE: Tossing it to the NPC, yeah.
KEITH: Oh, okay. But I — I do pick who goes next in —
AUSTIN: I think so. I think, I'm just going to drag, the — yeah.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Yep.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Okay. So, do we have any funny names for these guys yet?
AUSTIN: Big Fucker.
KEITH: Big Fucker.
DRE: Big Fucker, yep.
AUSTIN: Uh, I said boom box, but we also said, what's the —
KEITH: Paras and Scyther.
AUSTIN: Yeah, Paras and Scyther.
DRE: [laughing] Paras and Syther.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh. Yeah. And then bubblegum.
DRE: Gotcha. Okay.
AUSTIN: And we just do west and east, you know? We got east Scyther, west Scyther, you know.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. [laughing] So, so the east Scyther —
KEITH: Better school systems...
DRE: Shoots up what looks like a little — oh my god. [laughing]
KEITH: [laughing]
DRE: What looks like basically like a little firework.
AUSTIN: Oh.
DRE: And, it explodes in the air, and then rains down, uh, smoke. Uh... and now —
AUSTIN: Mmm. Mmm.
DRE: These two are in a cloaking field.
KEITH: Yep. I saw that, I saw the tadpoles already.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I saw that happening.
DRE: Yeah. Uh...
AUSTIN: Does that mean that we can't shoot it, does it —
DRE: Nope. So, it means that they are invisible.
AUSTIN: Cool.
DRE: And so, when someone is invisible, all attacks against you have a 50 percent chance to miss.
AUSTIN: Fuck that.
DRE: So basically, you roll, and then you flip a coin —
JACK: [laughing] That’s really fun.
DRE: To see if you hit or miss.
AUSTIN: Does that work for anything inside of that field?
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: Including us?
KEITH: And does that work in tandem —
DRE: Yep.
KEITH: Or does it replace the hard cover that they're behind?
AUSTIN: Cool, love it.
DRE: No, in tandem. But yes, if you get in there, that also counts for you.
JACK: Austin, put me there!
AUSTIN: I would love to put you there.
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Ooh, that's going to be — I don't know that I can get you all the way over there, bud.
KEITH: [chuckling]
JACK: Uh... two things. For the confused listener, when Keith said, “I've seen the tadpole already —“
AUSTIN and KEITH: [laughing]
JACK: What he was describing [laughs] was a large, black circle has appeared around the two mechs. And inside it, very excitingly for us, is an animated graphic of these weird black smoky little tadpoles swimming around inside this black circle.
KEITH: I cannot stress enough how not-abstract I was being. These are literal tadpoles.
JACK: No, no, yeah, they look like little tadpoles.
AUSTIN: They're little black tadpoles.
JACK: The second thing, Austin, is that I just realized that what you're doing with this grapple is that we are now reenacting Fitzcarraldo.
AUSTIN: This is true.
KEITH and DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Uh-huh!
SYLVIA: God.
KEITH: I, uh, I also, I love the idea of your, your fucking, uh, mech factory tank thing being dragged inside of this invisibility zone —
JACK: [laughing] And just going —
KEITH: Both on top of these other mechs, literally on top of them, but also still with about 20 percent of you sticking out of the other side.
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: I guess I could... that's the thing, is —
JACK: Oh god.
AUSTIN: I can get close. So, it's my turn, is it my turn, Dre, is it over?
JACK: Yeah, Dre, what if a bit of me's in the invisibility shield?
DRE: It is your turn. I should also let you know —
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
DRE: While we were talking, your HUD lights up with a lock-on warning.
AUSTIN: Mine.
DRE: Yes.
AUSTIN: All right, gotta go. All right. Grapple.
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Clunk. Wrap. Pull. [laughing] 6 spaces this way.
DRE: God. I'm —
AUSTIN: Zip!
DRE: You go ahead and do this. I'm just double-checking to make sure that this works. [laughing]
AUSTIN: Please.
DRE: But I'm pretty sure it does.
JACK: Austin, what —
DRE: I mean, that's the whole point of your system —
AUSTIN: That's the whole point of it, is like, I get double lifting power —
JACK: What does this look like? A mech of size 1, to...
AUSTIN: I, yeah. So I think the literal thing that happens is, you know, if Studio Trigger was doing this, I would like, unfold huge booster jets or something. That's not what happens. I launch this harpoon at this like, this rock face up here. And, it just starts dragging us super-rapidly, in a way that like, whatever the engine is inside of the — like the harpoon I shoot —
JACK: Oh god.
AUSTIN: Must itself have an engine, you know?
JACK: Do you think that there's, some... uh...
AUSTIN: And it tenses, it's like [cable creaking noise]
JACK: Kal'meria particle shit going on here to make this work?
AUSTIN: Oh, probably. Uh, probably, right? Uh, and it's just like, it has the power in a really small package, in a way that normally, it would not. Dre, you were going to say something?
DRE: Uh-uh. No, you're good.
AUSTIN: Okay. Well then, all right, come on up here.
JACK: Okay.
AUSTIN: Now, I, I don't want to bring you over there, for a reason I can't tell you yet.
JACK: That's fine. Okay.
AUSTIN: Okay. But I am going to use my, so that's my regular movement, that I'm going to boost, right?
DRE: Yeah. 
KEITH: You're going to be invisible.
AUSTIN: So grapple is one quick action, then I, yeah, I'm going to get as close as I fucking can to these people. That's 6.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Let's just get over there. And I will be in the invisibility field, which hopefully will help me against whatever lock-on thing happens. And the next turn's going to get fun. We'll see how it goes.
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: Let's hope that you're good at, uh, winning coin flips.
AUSTIN: [chuckles] Yeah. Hopefully.
JACK: Austin knows how to cheat at coin flips.
AUSTIN: That's true. Inside, do we, are we all still invisible to each other?
DRE: Uh... yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: That's so funny.
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: Sorry, I had to think about what you were saying, but yeah, totally. Uh...
JACK: Oh god, if you built a mech that could make these fields, which I'm sure you could do, you could turn Lancer games into fucking slapstick shitshows, constantly.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: So I just realized, I reread cloaking field. It is only scout and allied characters.
AUSTIN: Ah, fuck. I still want to be over here.
DRE: So if you want — okay, yeah.
AUSTIN: I think that — or mmm...
JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: You're behind hard cover.
AUSTIN: I'm — no, — I guess I am, now. I'm behind hard cover for them. [chuckling] Which is very funny.
DRE: Yeah, you are.
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: But do I want to do that, or do I want to get in this big guy's face? Uh... let me do some measurements. That's 6, that's 6. That's 7. But you're going to get closer. How far up could I potentially get, here? I guess I could get up to here.
DRE: You could definitely get next to that guy.
AUSTIN: For sure. And that guy's not invisible.
DRE: No.
AUSTIN: The — okay. I have to play Narmine Te’ketch, which is, I'm not — I'm just going to go for the big whale.
JACK: You're a whaler!
AUSTIN: I'm a whaler. I'm going to move next to this big motherfucker. That is — I keep targeting myself, which I think is appropriate in many ways. Uh, let me drag my character back over to here, then.
KEITH: [sighs]
AUSTIN: What's, what's that sound? That's a bad sound.
KEITH: Oh, sorry. I just keep forgetting about my, like, ambush stuff, because I don't really know how it works, I keep forgetting I have it. Uh...
DRE: Oh, I guess you have to —
KEITH: And I don't know what it does for me. I'm trying to figure it out.
AUSTIN: Hm.
KEITH: And if I can get back into being... like invisible. In order to move —
AUSTIN: Wait, did you... I can't undo my movements. Where was I, I was here?
DRE: You were there.
AUSTIN: I could be moving from here, instead. Because that's, I was, where was I? I was here. So I could go to here, and then from here, I actually could, instead of moving that second time, I could grapple. I'm going to do that instead. I'm going to grapple from — you don't have to move, because I, I'll just have been here, and I'm going to try to grapple this big motherfucker. Which, I think...
DRE: Okay, really quick, I get to make a roll.
AUSTIN: Because of grappling?
JACK: Oh, the reaction.
DRE: Yeah, because of a reaction.
KEITH: Ah!
AUSTIN: I don't know, I think I have a thing that prevents those.
DRE: Check for me.
AUSTIN: I'm gonna. I really would love that. Let's see if this is true...
KEITH: I do, real quick, I don't want to interrupt resolving something, to say, to ask a question about something from a turn and a half ago... uh...
JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: But what would you say if I said that, uh... the big guy that I hit should have been sent reeling on a hit?
DRE: He has — he's too big.
KEITH: He's too big?
DRE: What does reeling mean? That you knock him back?
KEITH: Uh... when you start your turn hidden, which I do —
DRE: Okay.
KEITH: The first attack of any type that you make sends your target reeling on a hit. Your target must succeed on a HUL save, or become slowed, impaired, or unable to make reactions —
AUSTIN: Oh!
KEITH: Until the end of their next turn.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: Do that. Please.
KEITH: So, just to, just to, fill the whole thing in, I have — that is the second thing on infiltrator.
DRE: Okay. Does anything happen on a check? Like, does he still take anything or...
KEITH: Uh... no. If he saves it, he saves it.
DRE: Okay. He saves it.
AUSTIN: Fuck.
KEITH: He saves it, okay.
AUSTIN: What is this thing —
DRE: Barely.
JACK: Worth a try.
DRE: Barely, though.
KEITH: Yeah, worth a try. Yeah, very barely. Plus 6, that's a good plus. That's a lot of, what is that? —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: A HUL saving throw? Great.
DRE: Mm-hm. [chuckling]
KEITH: That's a lot of HUL. Uh...
AUSTIN: Whatever the thing is I'm thinking of, I cannot find, so I think you get to make your thing.
DRE: Uh... I'm just double-checking.
AUSTIN: The thing, you know the thing that I'm thinking of. The thing that I'm thinking of is like, maybe it's just that I can make... reactions even when grappled, but normally you can't take reactions when grappled?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: I think that's what I'm thinking of.
DRE: Gotcha. Well, and his, his reaction range is 3.
AUSTIN: Right.
DRE: So he could do this before you even —
AUSTIN: Before I even get all the way in.
DRE: Get in there, Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh... so, that does... that does not do 26 damage.
AUSTIN: Okay. I'll take it.
DRE: That does... 8 damage.
AUSTIN: Okay, that's not so bad.
KEITH: That's better than 23.
AUSTIN: That's better than 23. I am down to... 6. But hey, I'm next to this guy, and next turn should be fun.
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: Oh, we should now do the grapple check. Because I count as equal in, in, you know, whatever to him.
DRE: Yep, you do.
AUSTIN: So, what is the... actually we should have done that first. Because if this fails, I don't get that close. I don't get to zoom in if I fail the grapple check.
DRE: Oh... okay.
AUSTIN: Which means that he doesn't get the counter. But let's, let's — there's a contested HUL check, I think, is that right?
DRE: That is correct, yes.
AUSTIN: Does that mean we both just roll grapple?
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Or both roll —
DRE: We both roll HUL.
AUSTIN: HUL? Okay.
DRE: Uh...
AUSTIN: Do I get bonuses for this...
DRE: Man! That — he's doing a bad job.
AUSTIN: He must have a bunch of HUL too, right?
DRE: Yeah. 6.
AUSTIN: Oh, that's so many. Okay. I should not have dyed this… 
KEITH: I have 1...
AUSTIN: Oh.
KEITH: [laughing] But maybe, maybe he's bad at hitting.
DRE: Wait. So, the way your grapple works, so, you —
AUSTIN: I would —
DRE: As soon as you shoot the — do you do the grapple before you're next to them? How does that work?
AUSTIN: Yeah, it's, if the — the Blackbeard can grapple targets within 5. If the grapple is successful —
DRE: Oh...
AUSTIN: The Blackbeard is immediately pulled adjacent to the target by the most direct path.
DRE: Okay. Okay.
AUSTIN: Against things that are my size or smaller, it's free, because — or, there's no check, because I count as bigger than them from the other thing I have. And smaller targets just get grappled. Whereas I always count as at least equal to anything I'm trying to grapple, or that's trying to grapple me.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: That's what one of my, that's what my core system does, or whatever. Not to spend the core passive that I bought, you know.
DRE: Okay. So, you do get a bonus, because — the same size as the larger opponent. When you grapple or ram opponents of the same size or smaller —
AUSTIN: I don't think it works that way —
DRE: Oh, no, never mine, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm misreading.
AUSTIN: I did that — I am not going to rules lawyer my way — I think it very clearly is trying to say, against size 1 things or size half things, I'm super good. But again, since, you know —
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: All right. But I do get a plus-1 on all HUL checks and saves from the Gyges frame. So... so I do get a plus-1 to this. Or plus-advantage, rather. So I'm going to give myself advantage, and roll... hey, that's a 20.
DRE: Okay. Yeah. Nice.
AUSTIN: So it comes in, and then I take that damage, but now I've got this motherfucker grappled, which is fun.
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: Uh... and I think, I'm not going to try to boost anything here, because I feel like that would be — or, wait. I guess I haven't... does overclocking or overcharging reset between scenes, is that right? Or is just between —
DRE: No.
AUSTIN: Total repairs.
DRE: It is between full repairs, yeah.
AUSTIN: All right, so yeah, I'm not going to try to overcharge at this point. I'll wait until I fuck up. That's my turn.
DRE: Uh... [unintelligible] okay. Gotcha uh... okay. I need you to make another HUL save for me.
AUSTIN: Don't like that. Dislike, in fact. Uh... but I do now get, I still get that plus-1, or that plus-1 accuracy, from the thing. 25, this time.
DRE: Yeah. Uh...
AUSTIN: Is that right? Yeah, that's right.
DRE: Gosh. So I think that this —
KEITH: They plink it back right at them.
DRE: [laughing] Yeah. What this looks like is like, as you're coming in to grapple, you take that shotgun blast like full-on —
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Uh-huh?
DRE: And you land next to him. And then he just rears back and tries to just, uses his big, open fist, and slams it into the ground. But you're, I imagine you like Dark Souls roll, out of the way.
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, 100 percent.
DRE: And there's just a huge impact crater in the ground where... [laughing]
AUSTIN: God! I think I do like the Dark Souls equivalent of like, you do like the Bloodborne version of a dodge, which is like just the sidestep. Except what I'm doing is just like shooting a little harpoon to the side, to quick drag me away.
DRE: Uh-huh. Yeah, that's awesome.
AUSTIN: You know what I mean?
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: I hate this motherfucker... oh, also, really quick, he's grappled now, which means he cannot take any more reactions.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: I just wanted to make sure that's — so that means, other people, you can get near him without him triggering his counters.
DRE: Yep. As long as you are grappled with him.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
DRE: Uh...
AUSTIN: Also, don't get too close to me. I send that word out really quick.
DRE: [chuckling]
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Hey, uh, go around.
DRE: Okay. Uh...
KEITH: Oh, you don't say, “don't get too close to me,” like maybe you're talking about emotionally?
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Yeah. I mean, in some ways.
DRE: [pause] Okay. So...
AUSTIN: Jesus Christ.
DRE: He kind of like, you see his — because this mech is huge, and it has like a very small head. But I imagine it has like a really bright, almost like Zaku-style red eye that's like, moving back and forth. And so the head just kind of lifts up a little bit and looks at you, as the red eye switches to like... slides over to lock onto you. And it takes two more shotgun shots at you.
AUSTIN: Jesus Christ.
DRE: One of which hit, and does 5 damage.
AUSTIN: I don't like it. Still in it, but...
DRE: Yeah. All right. And that is, that is Large Man.
AUSTIN: Big Fucker.
DRE: Big Fucker. [laughing] Big Fucker Saxton Clash.
SYLVIA: One of those new WWE wrestlers, right?
DRE: Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: God. Yeah, it's my favorite NXT guy.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: He's going to go really far. [laughing]
SYLVIA: Yeah, I've heard great things.
AUSTIN: You said 5 damage, right?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Okay, I'm still in it. Still got 1... I have 1 HP.
DRE: Wow...
KEITH: Wow.
AUSTIN: I'm very hardy, is the thing.
DRE: Yeah. All right. So, I guess either Martilla or Zark.
JACK: You know, I'm prepared to take a move.
SYLVIA: Yeah, go for it.
JACK: Uh... I can come lumbering forward, by 3.
DRE: You, are you 3 or are you 2? I thought you were 2.
JACK: Uh... let me see.
DRE: Your sheet says speed 2.
JACK: Fuck!
AUSTIN: This is what we're saying.
DRE: Is there any, is there anything I'm missing as far as like something that would give you —
JACK: No.
DRE: Okay.
JACK: No, if it's on the sheet, that's correct. Let me just check it in COMP/CON 2 which I've been using as the, kind of definitive. Yep, speed 2. 
DRE: Okay.
JACK: Okay. So...
DRE: Uh, I'm also going to remind you, uh, just because I don't know if this is something that you've been using, but one of your talents is that field commander talent.
AUSTIN: Oh...
DRE: And it's very good.
AUSTIN: We should have been using those.
JACK: Yeah. Uh...
KEITH: Wait, what should we have been using?
JACK: Uh, well, I, I offered it in the first fight, and you were like, “no, I think I know what I'm doing.” [chuckling]
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: Uh, I'm, I'm able to offer leadership dice, where, if we sort of agree on a plan, I can give you a dice, and on your next turn, if you act on the plan, you get plus-1 accuracy for it.
KEITH: I have a good idea on what to do with that.
JACK: Yeah. The thing is, that is a quick action. Isn't that right, Dre? Or is it a free action?
DRE: No, that is a free action.
JACK: Okay, yeah —
KEITH: Wow.
DRE: Now, now the thing is, is that you are issuing the order, right? Like, the way this works is that, this isn't like a discussion. This is like, Martilla going into like, military hierarchy and saying —
JACK: Yeah.
DRE: “Hey, you go there, do this thing.” And if you follow that order, you get the accuracy bonus.
JACK: Yeah. And I think that the... describing a course of action and give them a leadership die. They may either expend the leadership die to gain plus-1 accuracy on any action that directly follows from that order, or they may return it to you as a free action. So they can go, “... no.” Uh... from a gameplay perspective, am I allowed to hear what Keith's plan is? Or do I just, is this, is this a weird restrictive thing, where I have to actually come up with a plan?
DRE: Yeah, I... to me, that is like the spirit of the... of the talent, if that makes sense.
JACK: That's... yeah, that's really tough. Because I don't know Keith's mech in the way that I might, if we were playing like a long campaign.
AUSTIN: Mmm, mm-hm.
DRE: Sure.
JACK: Uh... And I don't think I have access to his...
DRE: You know, let's, let's do it. Let's do it. I'm much more a fan of like, letting you all do cool stuff, than being like, technical about it. So...
KEITH: Yeah. It would be, it would be easier if we had done like, 9 of these.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure.
KEITH: To be like, “I think that Keith should use mark for death, and then —“
DRE: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: But I don't think it would have to be that, right? Because the objective can be just as simple as, “you go kill that guy,” as long as —
DRE: Yeah, go shoot that guy.
AUSTIN: What you're choosing is towards that end, it counts. You get the bonus.
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Right?
JACK: Yes, but my, my guess is that what Keith's planning is pretty intricate, such that if I were to point him in the direction of the wrong guy...
AUSTIN: Yeah, well just be like, go kill the ones over there.
DRE: Well, okay.
KEITH: Well, as a, as a, as a leader, Martilla would know that I get, uh, 2D6 bonus damage if I get, if I crit —
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: On, uh... on that big guy. And so, getting 2D6 bonus damage on a 1D6 plus 1 weapon would be a pretty big hit.
JACK: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think that she just comes on the comms and screams, “Saxton! Get him!” To, to — not in the sense of like, I want Saxton to kill you, but in the sense of like —
KEITH: Right — [laughing hard]
JACK: Oh god, Saxton, is here — everybody focus on Saxton.
DRE: Murder that man.
JACK: Uh... yeah. And if we're counting things that are ringing bells in Martilla's head that this might not be the up-and-up, why have they deployed Saxton Clash to the planet in this way?
AUSTIN: Mmm.
JACK: Uh, he's a real piece of shit, and this seems like overkill. Uh, so I'm going to give you a leadership die, Keith. Uh...
KEITH: Cool.
JACK: That you hold onto until you take that action.
KEITH: Yes.
JACK: Then I'm going to lumber forward 2.
AUSTIN: [chuckles]
JACK: I'm trying not to get too close to you, Austin.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I — really be careful.
JACK: Yeah.
AUSTIN: It might be okay, but like —
KEITH: [laughing]
DRE: Austin breakdances around —
AUSTIN: Wait, wait, wait. Like, truly, really, I think don't get that close to me.
JACK: I'm caught — this is a real —
AUSTIN: No, you're good, you're good. Keep on coming. Keep on coming. It's fine. It's fine.
JACK: Okay. Because I need to move —
KEITH: Dre, is that cover?
AUSTIN: I can only do, I can only do a protocol at the beginning of my turn. Right?
DRE: Yes. Yes. Yes.
AUSTIN: Okay.
JACK: Uh, I'm going to fire the siege weapon.
DRE: Okay.
        
JACK: Uh, the siege cannon in regular indirect fire mode. I don't need to, do it — it has a range of 20, and it does 3D6 explosive damage.
DRE: Now, here's — okay, and it knocks other people back, right?
JACK: Ah, yeah.
DRE: That's not you getting knocked back twice.
JACK: No. I may choose to knock the target 2 spaces back.
DRE: Okay. Right, yeah, yeah, yeah. Just making sure.
AUSTIN: Great.
JACK: Austin, do you want me to knock him back?
AUSTIN: No.
JACK: No.
AUSTIN: Well... wait, let me see the math. You're 4 spots away from me? As long as [laughing] he's 3 or less spots away... we gucci. So, you can do a 2 knockback. I think that's fine. It looks right.
JACK: Sounds... yeah, sounds good. Okay. Uh... so I am going to fire the super-heavy cannon.
DRE: Uh-huh.
JACK: This is just like, tank on tank combat, where it's like —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: One tank just pulls up 30 feet from the other one and fires a shell at it.
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: Uh, weapons...
KEITH: Uh, if you — I will just say, if you do knock the mech back, then he won't have those, uh, uh, those water plants that make it look like he's got a hairdo.
DRE: Oh, that is sad.
JACK: Yes.
KEITH: [laughing]
AUSTIN: That would be very funny.
JACK: That is really sad. That's one of my favorite things about this mech.
AUSTIN: Also, wait. Sorry — what happens? Because I'm grappled — does, do I just go with him if he gets knocked back?
DRE: I don't think so. I think that would break the grapple.
AUSTIN: Mmm... then don't knock him back.
DRE: Yeah. Either character breaks adjacency within the grapple.
AUSTIN: Yeah, don't knock him back.
JACK: [chuckling] Oh. Okay.
DRE: Such as, if they are knocked back by another effect.
AUSTIN: There you go.
DRE: Right in the book. There you go.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I get so many bonuses from being on this dude like this that it's better to...
KEITH: I sort of, I have no idea what Austin's planning, but it feels like he's about to do like a self-destruct, like Electrode thing.
AUSTIN: Don't worry about it so much.
KEITH: [laughing]
DRE: It does seem like you're about to do some Iron-Blooded Orphans shit, is what I would say. [laughing]
AUSTIN: Uh-huh! That's about right. That's true.
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: Is he in cover, Dre?
DRE: No.
JACK: No. Because he's fucking huge.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: He's [chuckling] — yeah, nothing can cover this man.
KEITH: Yeah, the, the book says that in order to be covered, you have to have cover that is your size. And there is nothing on this map —
JACK and AUSTIN: [laughing]
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Like you can't — a size 3 thing can't take cover behind a size 2 thing, even.
JACK: So I did... is that 14 damage to him?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Jeez.
KEITH: Nice.
JACK: Uh, but I'm not knocking him back.
AUSTIN: Thank you.
DRE: Okay.
KEITH: But we could if we wanted to.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah!
KEITH: Yeah!
DRE: Yeah!
AUSTIN: Maybe I don't even need to do the thing I want to do, maybe we can just win this — no, he has structure, he has structure.
JACK: Oh yeah, he absolutely has structure.
DRE: Maybe.
AUSTIN: I guess we don't know.
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Could just be a big one.
KEITH: Maybe he has course.
JACK: Maybe he has... shape. That's the 3 of them?
AUSTIN: That's... uh-huh.
DRE: [laughing]
SYLVIA: Gosh.
AUSTIN: Who goes?
DRE: Is that your, is that your turn?
JACK: Uh, yeah, I'm... [laughing] I deployed the, I gave the leadership dice, I took one step forward, and then I took a full action, because it's a super-heavy weapon.
AUSTIN: [chuckles]
DRE: Gosh. [chuckles] Okay. How far away are you... okay. Uh... I think, as, as your, as your siege cannon fires, it hits, it hits this mech like, right in the shoulder. Uh... I want to say it's probably the shoulder that like, did the big punch, right? And so it, it kind of like, knocks it back upright, and then that targeting eye kind of slides back over and locks on to you, Martilla. So...
AUSTIN: Uh, it has minus, it has, it has disadvantage, or whatever, inaccuracy.
DRE: Oh, right.
AUSTIN: Because I'm grappling it. It's engaged.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah.
JACK: Yeah, you're buzzing around like a mosquito, and it...
AUSTIN: I feel like I'm like, literally trying to like pull the leg out from under it, you know? Get like both of my hands underneath the tether, the rope, and like doing the like — pull, pull, pull...
JACK: Yeah.
KEITH: Wow. A rare miss. A full miss.
AUSTIN: A full miss? Wait, what are you talking about? That says crit.
DRE: Well, the first one missed.
AUSTIN: Oh, the second one, I see.
DRE: Yeah. And you take 8 damage.
JACK: Okay. So, is that armor piercing?
DRE: Uh... it is not.
JACK: Okay. So I take 6 damage.
KEITH: Where's the other three from? Is it just, it does a flat 3 in addition to the 5?
DRE: Yeah, but no, it has an extra system. Where it gets bonus damage during certain conditions.
JACK: The inside of Under the Radar is now on fire.
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Oh, no!
DRE: Oh, no!
JACK: It's not burn damage being applied, I'm just narrativizing this.
KEITH: Is —
SYLVIA: The fire is far enough away that it's not a big deal.
JACK: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just, uh, it's over there fire.
DRE: It's, it's fine. Yeah.
SYLVIA: It's between two panes of resin like everything else.
AUSTIN: [chuckles]
JACK: Uh-huh.
DRE: Okay. So, hold on... so in order to... do I have to do something in order to break this grapple?
AUSTIN: Yeah, you could try to make a... let's see here.
DRE: I have to make a contested HUL save, right?
AUSTIN: Yeah, but I don't know what type of move that is. It must be a quick move, right?
DRE: I'm double-checking, let's see. Uh... let's see, a grapple ends... the defender breaks from you by succeeding on a contested HUL check as a quick action.
AUSTIN: There you go.
KEITH: It seems like a full action, yeah. Oh, yeah. You just said.
DRE: So, I'm going to try and do that here.
AUSTIN: Okay, but I get a reaction, if it’s. In fact, I just should have gotten a reaction, right? Because it did something in my — or is that only if it's moving?
DRE: I think that's only moving into... let me double-check. What that should be...
JACK: Also, can it take a full action, if it fired the shotgun at me?
DRE: That's a quick action.
AUSTIN: Yeah, the, this is a, breaking out is a —
JACK: Oh, the — okay.
DRE: Yeah. Skirmish within a — skirmish with a weapon against an enemy that starts moving within its thread.
AUSTIN: Okay. So if it tries to move, is when I can... okay.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, we'll do that contested HUL.
AUSTIN: Okay. Ooh, that's a good one. That's a good one.
DRE: There we go.
KEITH: Uh, there's this kind of video —
AUSTIN: I can scroll up and hit my button again.
KEITH: There's this kind of video of like, small, strong guys beating big amateurs at arm wrestling. And I sort of feel like that's what Austin's mech is. Small stuff —
AUSTIN: Yeah. I mean, it's a whaler. That's what it is.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: I keep that plus... what's up, what's good? What's good?
DRE and KEITH: [laughing]
AUSTIN: What's good? I have no idea if this actually goes my way or not, we tied.
DRE: No, it doesn't.
AUSTIN: Fuck.
DRE: Ties go to the initiator.
AUSTIN: Goddamn.
JACK: Austin, wait, I'm sorry, I hate to be pedantic here —
AUSTIN: Wait, I'm the initiator. It's my grapple.
DRE: Well, yeah, but no, he is initiating to break the grapple.
AUSTIN: Oh, no, it's fine.
JACK: I think there's something I'm not following here. He attacked me with a shotgun for a quick attack.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Yes.
JACK: And this contested HUL is a full action?
AUSTIN: No, it's a quick.
DRE: No, it is a quick.
JACK: Oh, it's a, okay, I see.
KEITH: Wait, I thought — oh, I thought it was a full.
JACK: I thought I heard Dre say it was a full.
DRE: No, it's a quick action.
AUSTIN: Yeah, check is a quick action.
DRE: The defender breaks free by succeeding on a contested HUL check as a quick action.
JACK: Oh, right.
AUSTIN: And successes go to the roller.
KEITH: The thing — the person making the full action was me, because under mech turn actions, it says skill check, [hace] or other check to perform a difficult action, but that's a different...
AUSTIN: Right, yeah, yeah, yeah.
DRE: Uh... okay. And... yeah, I don't think he wants to move. He's fine where he is.
DRE and AUSTIN: He just doesn't want to be grappled.
AUSTIN: Yeah, that's fair.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: It is fair.
AUSTIN: He saw what I did when I was grappling, you know?
DRE: Mm-hm. So, like, when you are currently grappling him, are you physically holding him? Or is it the harpoon stuff?
AUSTIN: I think it's harpoons that have wrapped around, it's me pulling, it's me getting anything I can do, right? Sometimes it is literally reaching my claws into, or my hands in, in that way —
DRE: Gotcha.
AUSTIN: And trying to like yank, you know?
DRE: Yeah. So I think what it, what it looks like for this to break the grapple, are we saying it's harpoon since you came from like far away?
AUSTIN: I think this is harpoon, because he's so big.
DRE: Yeah. The piece of armor that the harpoon is stuck in just gets ejected off, and then an automated system underneath basically replaces that piece of armor.
AUSTIN: Incredible.
KEITH: Shark teeth.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: Oh, wow.
AUSTIN: Love it.
DRE: Okay. So, either the Ill Portent, or the Dressage.
KEITH: Uh... I actually think it has to be —
SYLVIA: No, yeah, I think it's me.
KEITH: The Ill Portent, because Sylvi [unintelligible]
DRE: Oh, you're right, yeah, you went first. Sorry, forgot to check you off.
SYLVIA: So I, I had to check some things, because I was like, I'm pretty sure I can fly, but it's not on my mech sheet. It's on my pilot sheet.
AUSTIN: There you go.
SYLVIA: I have it —
DRE: Is it one of your talents?
SYLVIA: It's under technical, it's a core bonus. All theater movement speed.
DRE: Oh, yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah. You may choose to count any and all of your movement as flying. However, you take one heat at the end of each of your turns in which you fly this way. Oh, no, not heat. I hate taking that.
DRE: Oh, no.
KEITH: [laughing] 
DRE: Oh, no, don't take heat, you so sexyyy.
SYLVIA: [laughing] So, I'm just — I think I have to make two movements to get to where I want to go. Because my movement speed's 6.
DRE: Okay. So, yeah, you just move, and then boost is a quick action.
SYLVIA: Yeah, so I'm going to do that. I'm just double-checking to make sure. Okay. I can, I can, I'll figure that out. Because I can move 12 if I’m moving twice, so I'm just trying to... there we go. I found my spot, it's right north of this palm tree, is where — I'm still on the same level.
DRE: Nice, get some shade.
SYLVIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. And then I don't think — can I do anything else? Movement counts as what again, a quick action, or...
DRE: Uh, yeah, that's a quick action, doing your second move is a quick action.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: So you still have another quick action you can do.
SYLVIA: All right. And for a quick action, I can only use certain weapons, right? Like I can't use my heavy or my main, I can use my flex, though? Is that right?
DRE: Uh, you can use your main.
SYLVIA: Oh, okay.
DRE: You can use anything as long as it's not super heavy.
SYLVIA: Oh, okay. Uh... oh, wait, I need to, I overcharged to move, did I? Or did I not?
DRE: No, you didn't. That's just a boost.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: So you're still good.
SYLVIA: Can I overcharge before I do this?
DRE: Yeah! Are you wanting to attack twice?
SYLVIA: Sure. Yes. Yes.
DRE: Okay, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
SYLVIA: So I'll start by using my Sharanga missiles, because that can hit two things at once. And I'm going to target... hold on, let me make sure I'm far — I'm in range, because I've got 15 range here. Yeah, so I'm going to target this guy up in the top right, that's just out of the zone. And I'm going to target Big Fucker, as we know him.
DRE: Okay. Yep, sure. And since that's arcing, that ignores cover.
SYLVIA: Sick, okay. Uh... okay, I'm going to roll that. Do I have to roll that twice for each time or is it just —
DRE: I think you just use it, I think you just do it the once.
SYLVIA: Okay.
DRE: So that will miss the smaller guy, but that will hit the, the big guy.
AUSTIN: Hell yeah.
SYLVIA: Okay. So it takes 3 damage, flat. Uh, and now I'm going to overcharge. Oh, wait, I hit the wrong button again. Overcharge. 2, which... I'm in the danger zone, everybody.
AUSTIN: This is what we love to see.
DRE: Nice.
AUSTIN: This is what we love to see.
SYLVIA: This is what we've been waiting for.
DRE: Uh-huh.
JACK: Yes!
SYLVIA: Uh... so...
DRE: Good god.
KEITH: [laughing]
AUSTIN: I really wanna know — Oh, this is about to go bad for them.
SYLVIA: Yeah, I think I'm going to use my grenade launcher.
DRE: Uh-huh.
SYLVIA: Actually, hold on, let me make sure I'm in range to use my grenade launcher. I might not be. Oh, no. Hold on.
DRE: It's 10, right?
SYLVIA: It's 10, yeah.
AUSTIN: You're within, what? Oh, on big guy.
SYLVIA: On big guy.
KEITH: Well...
SYLVIA: Because these guys — I mean, I could —
DRE: It's 10 from your arm. Yeah, it works.
SYLVIA: It's 10 from my arm?
KEITH: Yeah, it’s 10 from one of your — yeah.
SYLVIA: Okay, cool.
KEITH: It's 9 from your arm.
SYLVIA: Focused too much on my mech's feet, as usual.
DRE: You know, what are you going to do.
KEITH: The arm is where the gun is.
SYLVIA: So I'll roll this first and then go through everything that nuclear cavalier gives me?
DRE: Please do.
SYLVIA: Uh...
DRE: Ooh, actually, you cannot use your grenade launcher, because it's ordinance.
JACK: Ugh!
SYLVIA: Okay. Can I use my, can I use my fuel rod?
DRE: You can use anything else. Besides the Sharanga missiles. So you can use your fuel rod or you can use —
SYLVIA: Wait, can I use my, my Gandiva missiles?
DRE: Yeah, totally.
SYLVIA: Oh, okay. Then I'm going to, I want to hold onto my heat right now. So the fuel rod clears 4 heat for me, so it's great when it's higher up —
DRE: Oh, god.
SYLVIA: But right now if I use it, I'm going to slip right back out of the danger zone.
DRE: Right, because the fuel rod gun is basically you launching your superheated core to people.
KEITH: [laughing]
SYLVIA: Yeah, I'm ejecting the stuff that is [chuckling] overheated.
DRE: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah, so, one second. I'm also looking at my ordinance, wait, not my ordinance, you know, my armament. That's it. My supply, uh, my... ammo thing. I, I'm thinking of giving this Sabot charge, using, making the Sabot ammo, which gains armor piercing and deals kinetic damage, but...
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Mmm...
SYLVIA: Because — well, it, also, it will deal energy damage no matter what, because —
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: I like that, that sounds good to me.
AUSTIN: It will add a second type of damage, too? Damn.
SYLVIA: No, it, so — because this is my first ranged or melee attack roll on my turn while in the danger zone, it deals energy instead of kinetic or explosive.
AUSTIN: I see, I see.
DRE: And —
SYLVIA: And deals an additional 1d6 energy bonus damage on a hit.
AUSTIN: Jesus Christ. Yeah, okay.
SYLVIA: Uh... so...
KEITH: The only thing that happens when I get a lot of heat is that I'm really, really in danger.
All:        [chuckling]
SYLVIA: Yeah, I built this mech to be warm constantly.
JACK: Let's go!
SYLVIA: I'm trying to find where I mark my ammo stuff... because I need to mark off new charges.
DRE: It's on the uses, it's on the uses on your mech loadout page.
SYLVIA: The mech load — oh my god, okay, cool. And those don't do the, those don't reset between battles, right?
DRE: Uh-uh. Nope.
SYLVIA: Okay, cool. So I've got three uses left, and now I can finally roll this attack... [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Hell yeah.
SYLVIA: Uh... 22. And then I roll another —
DRE: Yeah. That hits.
SYLVIA: 1d6.
KEITH: Wait, okay, let's go —
SYLVIA: Uh...
DRE: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Deals plus 2 heat, first of all. Deals plus 2 heat, because I'm in the danger zone. Fusion hemorrhage also means that I deal another 1d6 of energy damage, so roll that. [dice roll] That's another 2 energy damage. Uh... and... yeah, I don't know if the armor piercing would have affected that at all, specifically, but that shot had armor piercing.
DRE: Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
KEITH: I'm going to bet this thing has armor.
AUSTIN: I also bet that. 
SYLVIA: That’s what I was — but.
AUSTIN: Thing that's this big, I don't know, but...
KEITH: It has 6 HUL.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: Which I think is what gives you armor, right?
SYLVIA: I, I don't really remember.
AUSTIN: Maybe...
DRE: Uh, no. Armor and HUL are separate.
AUSTIN: Because I don't have armor. I have one armor, I did not invest in more armor, which was a separate choice. I have one armor, it's like, not nothing. Oh, wait, I have one armor. Should I have been armoring all this time, Dre?
DRE: Yeah —
AUSTIN: Fuck.
DRE: Yeah, you should have been taking like minus one on everything.
AUSTIN: Minus one on basically everything? Does anything that I — I'll scroll through, will mark if it was AP? Or do you know —
DRE: Yeah, I don't think I've hit you with anything that has AP.
AUSTIN: Okay. So drum shotgun —
DRE: So at least add one from each time you got hit by the drum shotgun.
AUSTIN: By the drum shotgun, yeah. Each time.
KEITH: Awesome, congratulations.
AUSTIN: Thank you. I'm going to do some math.
DRE: Congratulations.
KEITH: You're in, you're in the mech like, you don't have like an HP meter in the mech, you just kind of have to keep track of how damaged you think you are, and then you go —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: [chuckling]
KEITH: Oh, I forgot, I have armor.
AUSTIN: I have armor! [laughing] I forgot.
KEITH: I'm less damaged than I thought.
AUSTIN: It's all right! There's drum shotgun, there's basic attack...
DRE: Gosh. Uh...
AUSTIN: That's one more there.
DRE: Okay. Uh... I'm going to go ahead, can I go ahead and start doing moves?
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: Uh, no, actually, no.
AUSTIN: What?
DRE: No, okay.
AUSTIN: Oh, okay, yeah.
KEITH: I don't have a thing, I just don't want you —
DRE: No, Keith just doesn't want me to do it.
AUSTIN: Yeah, good idea.
DRE: No, that's fair. You know what? Understandable.
KEITH: [laughing] no one's ever thought of this before.
DRE: Uh, I'm going to get the Umbrellas going here. So, the one on the east first. Shoots up just a volley of missiles.
AUSTIN: Oh...
DRE: And I'm going to mark three spaces on the ground here...
AUSTIN: Oh, okay.
JACK: Hm...
DRE: Where if anybody walks into this, into one of these, you will take damage.
AUSTIN: Okay.
KEITH: It, so, wait, it just is hitting those spots forever?
DRE: Let me make sure. It is... da-da-da-da-da... the next time a hostile character moves through, starts their turn in, or passes above one of the chosen spaces, they are hit by a rocket. This effect lasts until the start of the rainmaker's next turn.
KEITH: Okay, it's called the rainmaker, so you're just constantly barraging those spots with missiles, got it.
DRE: Yeah, yep. Gotcha. Yep.
KEITH: That's funny, and weird.
DRE: Uh...
KEITH: I'm not going to aim this, I'm just going to shoot here, here, and here. I mean, I know, Dre, you aimed it.
AUSTIN: [chuckling]
JACK: Hm. Sort of restricts my movement a bit. I thought for a second I could make a K-turn through the missile areas, but, no, I think I have to get hit by one of them.
DRE: [chuckling]
KEITH: That's my favorite kind of turn, is a K-turn.
DRE: Oh...
AUSTIN: Oh, right, sure.
DRE: Yes, that does 4. That is explosive, so your armor would take one off of it. It also knocks you back 1.
AUSTIN: What does?
DRE: Oh, the attack I just made, sorry.
AUSTIN: Oh, I did not see this attack. That sucks.
DRE: No, sorry, yeah, that's okay, no, so yeah, after it fires off —
AUSTIN: Uh... yeah, yeah, yeah. Ugh. Okay. That's so close.
DRE: I imagine like, he fires off a set of those javelin missiles from like its top rack, and then the bottom rack shoots off a salvo of missiles right at you.
AUSTIN: Ugh. Yeah, I should probably not do the thing I want to do next turn, and just heal instead. I'm down, I'm down to 1 HP.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Oh, you healed back up and then —
AUSTIN: No, I never healed.
KEITH: Oh, well you, not healed back up, I mean —
AUSTIN: Right, but I checked the armor.
KEITH: You re-added your armor.
AUSTIN: Yeah, uh-huh. Uh-huh.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: I didn't realize you got hit.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I did not, either. Now I see.
DRE: Sorry about that.
AUSTIN: Nah.
KEITH: Is it adjacent to these three marks, is that what it is?
DRE: No, when you pass through them.
KEITH: Oh, pass through them, okay.
AUSTIN: Oh my god.
DRE: And so the Umbrella on the other side is going to do the same thing.
JACK: Hm!
KEITH: And they don't friendly fire?
DRE: Yeah, sure.
KEITH: They do friendly fire?
DRE: Let me double-check. I don't remember if it's hostiles only, or... yes, the next time a hostile character moves through.
KEITH: Damn.
AUSTIN: What about moves out of?
DRE: Moves through, starts their turn in, or passes above.
AUSTIN: Oh, so I'm fucked. Okay. Okay.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: So I'm going to lose, this is about to hit me.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: Uh...
KEITH: There's no save, it's just like, it just does it?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: All right. I hope this structure roll goes well.
DRE: Uh... and...
AUSTIN: I think I will activate this thing and we'll see how this goes.
DRE: Zark, can you do an agility save for me?
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: Actually, let me make sure... ooh, just barely.
SYLVIA: Am I, am I still rolling this?
DRE: Yes. Yeah.
SYLVIA: [pause] That's a 10.
DRE: Okay. Yeah. So you take 3 explosive damage.
SYLVIA: Okay, and I have one armor, so that's 2 damage?
DRE: Mm-hm. Yep.
SYLVIA: Okay. I'm at 8HP.
KEITH: I don't know, I don't know if I...
DRE: We're going to do this... the Scyther over here is also going to shoot out its cloaking field.
AUSTIN: Of course. These Scythers, man.
DRE: Uh... yep. Uh... and —
KEITH: There's two gumdrops up there that we haven't even looked at.
SYLVIA: I think we were purposely trying to avoid the ones on the left right now, right?
AUSTIN: Yeah, I think we were trying to like, punch through middle and right, basically. Like, we were just not going to be able to take everybody out by the end of this combat.
KEITH: Yeah, correct.
SYLVIA: Oh.
DRE: Yeah. Well, again, crit doesn't, doesn't count for, for NPCs.
AUSTIN: That's, that's good.
SYLVIA: Oh, okay.
AUSTIN: That's good.
DRE: And actually, hey, do you want the good news, or the bad news?
JACK: Uh...
KEITH: Good.
DRE: The good news is, you don't take any damage.
JACK: And?
DRE: Uh... the bad news is that you now have lock-on, and also, as long as you have lock-on, you are also shredded.
JACK: Mmm.
KEITH: Okay. And, Dre, please remind me about consuming lock-on?
JACK: Dre, what is shredded? Yeah, also that, too.
DRE: Sure. So, lock-on is basically a status you can give to someone else by doing a tech attack. And then whenever someone, whenever the next person attacks, they can consume that lock-on to get one accuracy.
JACK: Okay, so the next time someone tries to hit me, they're going to have an easier time hitting me, because Big Fucker has given me lock-on.
DRE: Well, it's not the Big Fucker, it is the Scyther on the, on the West side.
JACK: Oh, right, yes.
DRE: So I think, this is, this is its rifle. Its rifle doesn't do damage. But I think what it looks like is —
AUSTIN: Oh, that's really cool.
DRE: It has just like, the barrel of a rifle comes out, and it basically just shoots like a tracking dart onto your hull.
JACK: Right. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
DRE: Uh... and also, just to... shredded means that you no longer benefit from armor or resistance.
JACK: Mmm. Okay.
DRE: And... the gumdrops are just standing put, they're not doing anything.
AUSTIN: Great.
DRE: Uh... there we go. Turn 2.
AUSTIN: It's our turn again?
KEITH: God, I have so many —
AUSTIN: Go ahead. What were you going to say, Keith?
KEITH: Oh, I just have like, there's just a lot of options. This is a, it's a really terrible buffet of...
AUSTIN: Can I just get this damage out of the way and go first?
KEITH: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: All right. Hit me with this missile, Dre. How much damage is it?
DRE: Let me double-check. Uh... ssssss — 5.
AUSTIN: Oof. You hate to hear it.
DRE: Now, again, you take armor and anything —
AUSTIN: No, but I, but that's, I have, I have 1HP. I have one HP. So that's going to push me into structure zero. So I roll structure?
DRE: Right. Right. So, first go ahead and, so you have how much HP?
AUSTIN: Oh, if you just put your HP at zero, a little thing pops up that says, “structure damage. The Captain’s taking structure damage.”
DRE: Oh, that's fun. I can't see that, but —
AUSTIN: So I'm just going to roll. Yeah. I'm going to hit roll. Uh... I got a 5. Glancing blow.
DRE: Nice.
KEITH: Oh, that's the best.
AUSTIN: Emergency systems kicked in, stabilize your mech, but it's impaired until the end of your turn. Impaired characters get plus-1 difficulty on all attacks, saves, and skill checks. That sucks. But that's not the worst it could be, right?
KEITH: Yeah, sounds like it has to be.
DRE: It's better than your system blowing up or something.
AUSTIN: Yeah, totally. All right.
DRE: Let me also delete this before I forget.
AUSTIN: Thank you. That plus, that impaired sucks for this big play, this other, different big play I was going to make.
DRE: Oh. Also, for the damage you take, rolls over into your HP.
AUSTIN: Oh, it does. So that was, 5, you said, right? So it becomes 4...
DRE: 5... 4...
AUSTIN: That means I get, so I'm at 17.
DRE: 17, yeah.
AUSTIN: Love it. Okay.
KEITH: Well, it also becomes 3 because of armor, right?
AUSTIN: It was 5, minus 1 is — oh, right. Right right right.
KEITH: Minus 2, because 1 for the armor, and 1 for the 1 that you had still.
AUSTIN: No, that's right, though. Because it becomes 4 from the armor, the 1 drops me from 1 to zero —
KEITH: Right.
AUSTIN: And then I get 3 more, so it's 17.
KEITH: Right. Okay, yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I don't get, I don't think I get to count the armor twice unfortunately.
KEITH: No.
DRE: No, unfortunately not.
AUSTIN: But hey, that's not the end of the world. And I still have a move here, I still have my whole turn, actually. Uh... god, that plus-1 difficulty blows. Oh, but, but, it doesn't blow that much, because there's only one thing I'd be rolling against.
DRE: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: I am not going to activate the thing I thought I was going to activate this turn, and instead, I'm going to move up to... let's see, 4? That's too far here, I think. 5? 4? 4. Okay. Yeah, that spot that I just picked. This map is like, is sized in such a way that I'm having a hard time counting spaces.
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Okay, it's where I'm at now, where I've picked now. So, despite being impaired, impaired doesn't mean I can't move. I'm going to do up to here. And then, I'm going to spend my other battery, my other super battery, my other big, glowy core, my last one.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: And I'm going to reactivate Omni-harpoon. I think I, I like grapple up to here, up to this middle cliff place, and then, and then, I literally, you see me put a big, bulky disc back into a little slot — like not into the slot of the HUD, right, like just into like a console, like next to my drink, you know what I mean? [chuckling] like bouncing around inside the — like, “not yet, not yet.” And it just says like, “the Captain,” on that disc.
KEITH: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: And then you can see, underneath where it says, “the Captain,” it says, “.DAT,” but it's like, that's just a different — it's a different, I've put a piece of tape, and written, “the Captain,” over it, and have put that off to the side. So I'm not using that yet. Instead, I'm going to use my Omni-harpoon, where my HUD scans the area and sees all four of these motherfuckers, and I say —
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Gather up.
AUSTIN: And... the system fires grappling harpoons at any number of targets within range 5 and line of sight. Affected characters must succeed on a HUL save or take 2d6 kinetic damage and be knocked prone, then pulled adjacent to you as close as possible. They become immobilized until the end of the next turn. On a success, they take half damage and are otherwise unaffected. So that's all 4 of these people, they're all within range.
DRE: Okay. I need... uh... because these two are invisible —
AUSTIN: Oh, does this even hit — even with that? It's not an attack.
DRE: I mean, yeah it is. You're doing 2d6 damage [laughing]
AUSTIN: It's not an attack, though. It's a HUL save. They have to make a HUL save. What's the, what's the thing say?
DRE: Hm... what does invisible say?
AUSTIN: Yeah, how does invisible work? If it's targeted by any ability, then I think that obviously counts. I think you might be right.
DRE: All attacks against you have a 50 percent chance to miss, including tech attacks.
AUSTIN: It's not attack or a tech attack.
DRE: It doesn't — oh, okay. No, it says, or things that are — doesn't protect against automatic effects, or things that aren't targeted attacks like AoE attacks targeting your space, or forced saves, so, no, you're right.
AUSTIN: Forced save. Yeah.
KEITH: Oh!
AUSTIN: Fuck, fuck an invisibility cloak, IMO.
DRE: True.
SYLVIA: Yeah, I agree.
DRE: Oh, this guy's got minus 2 HUL, that's not good for him. Okay. Did you roll your damage yet?
AUSTIN: Oh, I have not, because I didn't know if it was going to hit.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Let's see... 2d6 kinetic. [dice roll] 7.
KEITH: Nice.
DRE: Okay. Uh...
AUSTIN: Big guy's probably going to resist.
DRE: Um! Okay. Oh, but he did save, so...
AUSTIN: Yeah, so he just takes half damage. But, everybody else —
DRE: Doing, yeah. I was doing math in my head, because I'd already mistakenly moved his thing down. Okay, so then they all get moved prone, and are adjacent to you, right?
AUSTIN: Yes. Correct. And they're immobilized until the start of their next turn.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: Ugh, just love it.
DRE: And then 7 damage...
AUSTIN: I've got to kind of go ham, huh? So that was a quick action, that was a move and a quick action. I still have an action.
DRE: That is B-nanas that that is a quick action. [laughing]
AUSTIN: I mean, it's a, it's a core power, right? I get to do that once, if you didn't give me that other —
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's true.
AUSTIN: Right?
KEITH: Yeah, but my core action takes a full thing to activate, and then I still have to fire it.
AUSTIN: Okay, but counterargument, I am now surrounded by four mechs.
KEITH: Yeah, fair.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Uh... I am going to try to chain axe — hm.
DRE: You they're immobilized until the end of their next turn, right?
AUSTIN: They're prone and immobilized, and prone gives me a plus — gives me an accuracy against them, right?
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Which counter — which, hey, now that impaired evens out, right?
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: In a, in a sense.
KEITH: Perfect.
AUSTIN: All right. So... I did not expect to have to do a whole big turn. I didn't think this would work this well. Uh... okay.
KEITH: Uh... is it the gumdrops that explode when you kill them?
AUSTIN: Oh, did that happen?
KEITH: Or is that the rifts?
AUSTIN: Shit, I don't remember that.
KEITH: You don't remember [chuckling] having to make an agility save when you killed the thing?
DRE: Oh, it, it — I'll tell you, it was not the gumdrops.
AUSTIN: Okay. All right, I'm going to heavy attack the big rocket deal, the — what were we calling these?
DRE: The Umbrella —
KEITH: Paras.
AUSTIN: The Umbrella, the Paras. Yeah, uh-huh.
DRE: The Paras, uh-huh.
AUSTIN: Let's target that guy, and let's... weapons, nanocarbon sword. So, I am impaired, but it's... but I get a plus-1 because it's prone, right?
DRE: Uh-huh. Yep.
AUSTIN: So that evens out. I don't think I'm actually grappling them, right? That doesn't actually grapple them —
DRE: No.
AUSTIN: It just literally pulls them close to me, which is funny.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Uh... and I don't think I get any other pluses, because I'm not grappling. I'm sorry that this is such a complicated build.
DRE: No, it's okay. That's Lancer, baby.
AUSTIN: Apparently. Yeah, apparently this is Lancer.
KEITH: Yeah, at first I thought this was your reaction to getting blown up, and then I was like, oh, no, this is a turn.
AUSTIN: No. All right. That's 21, so that's a crit.
DRE: God.
AUSTIN: So I do 9 damage to that guy.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Now, I'm not done, because —
DRE: Yeah, okay. Well, this one's dead, so —
AUSTIN: You tell me, so —
DRE: What I'm imagining is that like, this isn't, you grapple him and then do your thing.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
DRE: I imagine it's like, as it's being sucked in, you basically cut it in half with your sword.
AUSTIN: Right.
DRE: Like before, before it even lands there?
AUSTIN: Do you want to hear something really fun?
DRE: Please. I love fun things.
AUSTIN: So, yeah, I've cut that one in half, and I just keep spinning. Because wide-arc cleave says, the first time in a round that you perform a critical hit with a heavy or super heavy melee weapon, you deal three kinetic damage to all characters and objects of your choice within threat —
JACK: Woah!
AUSTIN: Other than the one you just attacked. My threat with this sword is 3. So that means anything within this range — so everybody else gets 3.
DRE: Cool. All right, so you cut through two of them as they fly to you [laughing] because that's also —
KEITH: And the big guy.
AUSTIN: And then — and the big guy takes 3 more. Then, once per round, when you hit with a heavy or super heavy melee weapon, you can make another melee attack with the same weapon as a free attack against a different character within threat and line of sight. This attack deals half damage if successful. So this is now, I'm going to — y'all, do I hit the bubblegum, or do I hit the big fucker?
JACK: Ugh...
KEITH: Bubblegum.
AUSTIN: Bubblegum, and then we've kind of cleared this whole side off, right?
JACK: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
AUSTIN: And I probably get the — we don't think that the big fucker's close to dead, right?
KEITH: No.
JACK: … no.
AUSTIN: All right. Then I'll go after, I'll go after this guy. But again, half damage if this hits. Target. Please let me target. Boop. Weapon, nanocarbon. Again, I get that plus-1 that cancels out impair.
KEITH: This is great. You killed a bunch of the stuff that I was worried about —
AUSTIN: That's just a hit. That's just — wow, that's a low roll. That's a hit?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Damn, okay. I rolled an 8.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: I mean, this thing is the size of the fucking —
AUSTIN: No, I'm hitting the little guy, though.
KEITH: Oh.
AUSTIN: So that's 7 damage on the little guy, the last bubblegum. Or not — other bubblegum.
DRE: Oh, you're doing, that's against the bubblegum.
AUSTIN: That's against the bubblegum.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: Yeah, that was, that's what Keith suggested.
DRE: Oh, okay. Okay.
AUSTIN: So yeah, this is a spinning claymore attack type, type vibe, you know? Pull them in, and then just immediately do a huge, like 360 spin, and then stop, and then do like a one-direction back attack with the heavy. And then that is...
JACK: And that's really hard to pull off, just from the controls alone.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: You've got to practice a lot.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I think that there is something really practiced about this, though, it's a, it's like seeing someone do a DDR song they know really well, do you know what I mean? It's effort, but they already — they don't even — they could close their eyes and do it, because it's about timing of inputs more than it's about reading the screen, at a certain point, because they've memorized what they need to do, you know? And that's how he's done this. So... that's my action.
DRE: Gotcha. That's it?
AUSTIN: Uh... you want me to double-check? I think that that's it.
DRE: No, I think that's it.
AUSTIN: I'm not going to overcharge.
DRE: [chuckling] Okay. Uh...
AUSTIN: I just want to remind everybody, that was not the, [chuckles] not my big plan. That was an improvised...
KEITH and JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: When you knocked me back and put missiles on me, I did this instead. So...
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: Would anybody like a leadership die? Because I could go next and distribute a die, if folks would like it later in the turn order.
DRE: Let me do my turn really quick, and then you can take over.
JACK: Oh, yes, you're right.
KEITH: Can you give another one out before the other one's been spent or given back? Because I haven't had a turn since the last one.
DRE: Yeah, yeah. As long as — you just have 3, right?
KEITH: Okay, okay, okay. As long as you give them out.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: I think it might have been a bit more than 3, but...
KEITH: [chuckling] that's so many.
SYLVIA: Gosh.
DRE: Uh...
JACK: Yeah, I have 3, yeah. I have 2 in my pocket now.
DRE: Okay. So, Narmine, the bubblegum that you have knocked prone —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Uh, I think it, it raises — it's, it's just, it's stuck on the ground. It literally cannot get up, mechanically, because when you are knocked prone, you cannot get up if you are also immobilized.
AUSTIN: Oh, holy shit.
DRE: So it's just like, stuck on the ground. It can't go anywhere. So it just raises its rifle and shoots at you from the ground.
AUSTIN: Okay. It can do that, though. Yeah, that's fine.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: All right. Uh...
DRE: Now, here's the fun thing, it is shooting you with the grenade launcher underneath it, which is blast 2.
AUSTIN: Oh my god.
DRE: So it also blows itself up.
AUSTIN: Oh my — wait, does it blow up, blow up?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Jeez.
JACK: [laughing] Wow.
AUSTIN: Wait wait wait. And it's blast 2, from me?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Okay, that's just outside the range of this guy, huh?
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: I'll take, I'll take 3, yeah, I'll take that 3 damage, uh, in exchange for him being gone.
DRE: Yep. Okay. Now you can go.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Right side's clear.
JACK: That was great, Austin.
AUSTIN: Yeah, okay. Love it.
KEITH: Yeah, that was nuts.
JACK: [laughing] All right. Does anybody want [to die / a die]?
All:        [laughing]
AUSTIN: Oh...
SYLVIA: God.
KEITH: I mean, give me another die, I'll use them both.
JACK: Do you... want one, Sylvi?
DRE: Can you give more than one?
SYLVIA: Uh... I'll take it. I don't really I have a big move in mind, coming up.
JACK: But you can just hold onto it, right, Dre?
DRE: Yeah, you don't have to use it on your next turn.
SYLVIA: Oh, okay, yeah.
DRE: I don't think.
SYLVIA: Awesome.
JACK: Uh... okay. So I'm going to give a leadership die to... you, Zark. With just a sort of impatient, you know, get to it, blow it up, what are you waiting for, sort of vibe. And then I am going to... I, I really need to start cracking on towards that extraction point.
KEITH: Yeah, you should move twice.
AUSTIN: Yeah, you should just move up.
KEITH: Although, we're still, this is only the second round.
AUSTIN: No, is it?
KEITH: I've only gone once, yeah.
AUSTIN: Is this round 2?
DRE: Yeah. This is the second round.
AUSTIN: Okay. Wow. We're doing good.
JACK: Okay. I'll move up two, and I'll shoot him. This is the second round of 8.
AUSTIN: Yeah! I'm feeling all right!
JACK: 1... 2.
AUSTIN: It's so funny —
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: It's just such a big machine!
KEITH and JACK: [giggling]
KEITH: Clunk. Clunk. Okay, I'm tired.
JACK: [laughing] I've been thinking about crossing the river for years now.
AUSTIN: Oh, I'm — sorry.
JACK: You know what it — you know in like an Elder Scrolls game, when you're over encumbered, and cannot move, and you just feel like you're walking through molasses the whole time? That's what it feels like, making this guy, [laughing] making this guy move. It's so funny when the mechs speak, as well.
AUSTIN: It's so funny when you can zoom in.
KEITH: [laughing]
JACK: How do you make them talk?
AUSTIN: You just type in chat, when you type in chat —
DRE: Just typing in the chat, yeah.
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: It zooms in the screen — for people at home who are listening, it zooms in the screen to show off the mech, and whatever you've typed. Jack has typed, “I'm too big.” Sylvi has typed, “yeehaw.”
SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Uh...
SYLVIA: Ugh, this is great.
DRE: Jesus. [chuckling]
SYLVIA: [laughing]
DRE: Thank you, Keith.
AUSTIN: Yeah, uh-huh. Oh yeah, uh-huh. Good.
DRE: Ugh. All right. Uh...
JACK: Time to roll for the siege cannon!
AUSTIN: This is what we're talking about, we do love a siege cannon.
JACK: Uh...
DRE: Don't we, folks?
JACK: [chuckling] Don't we?
KEITH: I do like, you are now so close that it's, it's more like a siege shotgun.
AUSTIN: Wait, wait wait. You can not, in fact, use the siege cannon? Is that the one that —
KEITH: It may need to be more than 5 away.
JACK: I don't think it does.
AUSTIN: Or is that just the apocalypse rail that does that? Yeah, that's just the apocalypse rail.
KEITH: Okay. My thing needs to be more than 5 away, so I thought maybe.
JACK: Dre, because of the debuffs that are on me right now, is affected in any way? Do I get an inaccurate — I was trying to mouse over them.
DRE: No, no, no, no, no.
JACK: No, it's only for him hitting me.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: Okay. Well... bye.
AUSTIN: Yo! Oh, wait. Did that actually not hit? That did not hit. That's a 5... probably.
DRE: That does not hit. That does not hit.
AUSTIN: I saw the good damage...
JACK: Just vaporizing a tree in the background.
DRE: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Yeah, 100 percent.
JACK: Well, that's my turn.
DRE: Yeah, I imagine you probably miss because you have like 9 million alarms going off —
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
DRE: Because you've got like a lock-on warning, and then you've got like, you know, you're shredded, so it's like, all of everything is like extra on fire.
JACK: You know, Martilla frantically waving a fire extinguisher at something in the corner of the cockpit.
DRE: Mm-hm. Oh, man. Okay. Uh... let's see... all right, I will have the Umbrella go. And it is going to consume that lock-on.
JACK: That's about right.
AUSTIN: That's a bad sound.
DRE: I need to... boy. I'm forgetting where... I needed to, uh... tag the thing where it has like all the weapon stuff. Uh... because this gets smart and seeking now, and I cannot remember what those do.
AUSTIN: I was just looking at these.
KEITH: Why does it get them now?
AUSTIN: Because of expending the lock-on, I believe.
KEITH: Oh, right, right.
DRE: Yeah, so it's, it is, well, no, normally lock-on just gives you plus-1 accuracy, but it, this thing gets special bonuses from, uh...
AUSTIN: Do you want to know, are you there already, Dre?
DRE: No. Did you find it before me?
AUSTIN: Uh, I did for a second. Oh yeah, yes, I have it. Smart is that this weapon has self-guidance systems, self-propelled projectiles, or even nanorobotic ammunition. These systems are effective enough that attacks cannot simply be dodged — they must be scrambled or jammed.
DRE: Right.
AUSTIN: Because of this, all attacks with this weapon, including melee and ranged attacks, use target's E-defense instead of evasion. Targets with no E-defense count as having 8. And then the other one was seeking?
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: As long as it's possible to draw a path to its target, this weapon ignores cover and doesn't require a line of sight.
DRE: Okay. Gotcha, okay.
JACK: Woah.
AUSTIN: So neither of these are too, too big. I guess I don't know what Jack's E-defense is, and if it's lower.
DRE: It's actually the same as the evasion, so it doesn't...
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah.
DRE: The other thing is that this is also now armor piercing.
AUSTIN: Oh, that sucks.
JACK: Oh, god.
DRE: Again, they don't crit. So that is, uh, 4 armor piercing.
JACK: Okey dokey, I think that this might be structure damage time.
DRE: And — yeah, and you get knocked back 1.
AUSTIN: Ugh.
JACK: Oh, woah, impressive.
AUSTIN: Honestly.
JACK: I mean, good on them for doing that.
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Yeah.
JACK: Uh... okay, so that —
DRE: Oh, wait, hold on.
AUSTIN: Uh-oh.
DRE: Let me double-check something. Well, because you were shredded for that. So.. 
JACK: I was, yeah.
AUSTIN: That's no armor, right?
DRE: Yeah. So that doesn't matter, because it was armor piercing. Okay. So...
JACK: So my health drops to zero.
DRE: Mm-hm.
JACK: Under the Radar has taken structure damage. Roll 1d6 to determine what happens.
AUSTIN: [gasps]
JACK: Ah. Wow.
AUSTIN: Okay. Fun.
JACK: Okay, here we go. Parts of your mech are torn off by the damage. Roll 1d6. On a 1 to 3, all weapons on one mount of your choice are destroyed. On a 4 to 6, a system of your choice is destroyed. Limited systems and weapons that are out of charges are not valid choices. [laughing]
AUSTIN: [laughing]
JACK: Fucking narc. Uh... if there are no valid choices remaining, it becomes the other result. If there are no valid systems or weapons remaining, this result becomes a direct hit, instead. Okay, so...
AUSTIN: And you just get to click that big destroy button?
JACK: Yeah, I get to click this big destroy button. That's a 1. All weapons on one mount of your choice are destroyed. Well, no, this is great, because I have this assault rifle that I've just not been using.
AUSTIN: Ah, love that —
DRE: [distorted audio] Yeah, so you can just get rid of that. Yeah.
JACK: In favor of the siege cannon — uh...
AUSTIN: That's fun. Jack, remember when you were like, I really want this mech to have like missing limbs, and [chuckles] have it be all beat up?
SYLVIA: There you go.
JACK: Yeah, oh yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Uh... so I think what happens is, oh, go on.
DRE: No, go ahead.
JACK: The, the assault rifle bit just, the mount on it drops, it loses its, the bit that's holding it up or powering it. And so from now on, Under the Radar is just dragging a big, sort of like a JCB arm with an assault rifle mounted on it.
DRE: Gosh.
JACK: Oh, thanks, Dre. Dre crossed it off already.
DRE: Mm-hm. Yeah, don't worry, I gotcha.
AUSTIN: Incredible.
JACK: But, more concerningly, I have gone backwards.
DRE: Oh, no!
JACK: That's the bit that really —
AUSTIN: Wait, I just saw you — you just moved up again.
JACK: Wait, did I? I didn't move me.
AUSTIN: Dre, did you move Jack?
DRE: Maybe — I didn't think I — oh, I did.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Because I hit control-Z trying to undo something else that I did by accident.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: There you go.
JACK: Okay.
AUSTIN: That's computers.
DRE: Because I deleted my markers —
JACK: That is half one move.
DRE: But I need those still. [laughing]
JACK: Oh.
DRE: Uh... oh, nope, that's not, nope. Okay. Uh, basically it's shooting more of those, the javelin missiles out there. So let me just...
AUSTIN: Mm-hm.
JACK: God.
DRE: I'm not going to have the same marker, but it works all the same. You, you know what it is. It's no longer animated, unfortunately.
AUSTIN: [chuckles]
DRE: Ugh. Okay. All right.
AUSTIN: Wait, so those stay — those are still active this turn?
DRE: Oh, well, no, I deleted the old ones.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: And then I put new ones out.
AUSTIN: And those new ones are because, it's a new round, and they're doing it again?
DRE: Mm-hm. Yep.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: Yeah, that's just a quick action for them.
AUSTIN: Fuck that.
DRE: [laughing] ugh... okay. So let's see... Under the Radar has gone, and —
SYLVIA: I think it's... Keith and I still need to go?
KEITH: Yep.
DRE: Yes.
SYLVIA: Do you have anything you want to do, Keith?
KEITH: Uh —
SYLVIA: You haven't left the appointment zone, so...
KEITH: Yeah. I haven't moved since the first turn of the, of this engagement. So I would like to go. I'm still not going to move, though, it's going to be fun.
JACK: And remember, you have the die.
AUSTIN: Okay. We have to all get up there. I guess we still have turns, but...
KEITH: I, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I can, I can get there. I can get there.
AUSTIN: Okay. Okay.
KEITH: But I have to use — so, first of all, I have that, uh, leadership die to spend.
AUSTIN: True.
KEITH: And the thing that I want to spend that on is using mark for death as a full action, to immobilize myself and target the big fucker.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: And then spending another overcharge, to get a quick action, to shoot that right away. Basically, that means that, on a crit, I will get a bonus 2d6. And I have plus-3 accuracy dice, for that roll.
AUSTIN: That's incredible.
JACK: Holy shit.
DRE: Jeez.
KEITH: I'm almost, I'm very close to guaranteed —
JACK: Where'd you get all those accuracy dice from?
KEITH: I get one just for the gun —
JACK: Uh-huh.
KEITH: I get one for my protocol move, crack shot. And I got one from you.
DRE: Wow. Great.
JACK: Wow.
KEITH: Uh, yeah. And uh, I have the roll all set up, I just have to target the guy. There we go. And I'm going to roll it. Unless there's anything I'm doing wrong, yet?
DRE: I don't think so.
AUSTIN: It all sounds right. How — that roll seems impossible. Wait, yeah, that roll's wrong. Oh, no, it isn't. Because accuracy is best-of, it's not add them all together.
DRE: Yeah. Yep. I mean, it still hits.
KEITH: Accuracy is best-of, not add them all together?
AUSTIN: Correct. If you have multiple accuracies —
KEITH: Oh...
AUSTIN: You're rolling, you're keeping the best.
KEITH: Ah...
AUSTIN: But, you do have that thing that lets you reroll a hit, right? Because —
KEITH: Yeah, and I'm totally going to reroll it.
DRE: Gotcha. Is this with your railgun?
KEITH: This is with, no, this is with my DMR.
DRE: The Vulture? Okay.
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Which gives you that other accuracy.
DRE: Though —
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: Uh, so I'm going to retarget him. And I'm going to reroll...
AUSTIN: And it's worse, somehow.
KEITH: It's somehow worse. But I still hit it, right?
AUSTIN: Oh, that's not true. You hit it for one more damage, you just also get overkilled.
KEITH: Damn. Oh, that's so disappointing.
AUSTIN: Yeah. What is your, uh, I'm trying to figure —
KEITH: I mean, I still hit it.
AUSTIN: Yeah, you do still hit it.
KEITH: For 4 damage.
AUSTIN: You do.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: I got 4 out of a possible, uh, 18.
JACK: Oh, no, Keith!
DRE: Woof.
AUSTIN: Wait, how is it, wait, what, what was your, how would you get an 18? You only rolled 1d6?
KEITH: If I crit, I get 2d6 bonus damage.
AUSTIN: Oh, I see, from mark for death.
KEITH: Right, from mark for death, yeah.
AUSTIN: What's your, Dre, what's, what's the to-hit chance? It's just grit, it's just 1d20 plus grit?
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: And then plus whatever accuracies you end up with?
DRE: Mm-hm. Yeah.
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Okay.
KEITH: My best was 17, it was a 9 plus 6.
DRE: Close.
KEITH: And then the one, the one before then —
AUSTIN: This is why I don't like d20.
KEITH: Was a 2 plus 5. So I did roll better the second time.
AUSTIN: Yeah, this is true.
KEITH: But I am taking — did that not roll? No, I fucked it up. 2... so 3 heat for that, total. So I'm at 5 out of 7 heat.
DRE: It's probably fine.
AUSTIN: It's probably fine.
KEITH: It's probably fine.
DRE: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Do you not want that? It's usually a good thing for me...
KEITH: No, I don't want that.
SYLVIA: Oh, weird.
DRE: All right. Is that your turn?
KEITH: That's my whole turn.
DRE: Okay. Uh...
KEITH: This, this guy worked a lot better in Chromehounds.
DRE: Dang.
KEITH: Yeah.
DRE: Okay. Oh, actually. Is that...? Oh, you're not in line of sight, though. Because this large man is probably big enough, yeah.
AUSTIN: Because that big guy is blocking me, for sure, right? Yeah.
DRE: Right. Uh... okay. Then let's do... okay. So again, this is, it's just, it's just the radar guy tagging you with that tracker.
AUSTIN: So that's the Scyther, re-locks-on to Jack?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: Uh... and that's it, because that's all I can do [laughing]
JACK: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: Since it has the — and actually, here, let me get rid of both of these two, because those cloaking fields are gone now. Okay.
AUSTIN: The thing —
DRE: Bounces back to — sorry, go ahead.
AUSTIN: I, I'm going to do my, I'm going to do my, I'm thinking a lot about Keith's mech. I'm thinking a lot about Keith's mech and my mech, and partly, uh, I've just gotten lucky with certain rolls, right? That like, I'm, I'm also just rolling a 1d20, so like, that last big stream of attacks that I just got to do, partly that's like, I've picked some good dice and have managed to like, or picked some good abilities to like string a bunch of attacks together or whatever, right? But the reason I got to do everything I did last turn is, I rolled 1d20 plus 2, no accuracy, and got a 19, right? So that's like, I critted, and then I got a plus-2, that plus-2 makes it a crit, and off that crit, I got that follow up spin attack, and then from that I then got to do another follow up attack. So all that is, and that's rolling a 19, whereas Keith's rolled a 9 or something. 
And the thing that's so fucking weird about this system is that, I... if we switched places, I would be — my character is 100 percent melee based, but if I had Keith's gun and rolled a 19, I would have crit, because it's just 19 plus grit, and grit is just a determination of your level. There's nothing about like, character differentiation in terms of, can I do the thing the other character is doing, inside of your mech, outside of the out — like, what happens after you've succeeded is what changes, you know? Uh... and I guess, like, Keith, in fact, has all these plus accuracy things that I did not have on that roll, but a 19 is just going to be better, and it's, it's one of those things that's like, I wish there was a little bit more that could, that could, huh, differentiate characters when it comes to, can I do this thing, versus — and maybe this is just the builds that we have, you know?
JACK: Right.
DRE: Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's a little of that, and it's a little, also, like, that's, that's d20 games, right?
AUSTIN: That's d20 — I mean, yeah, that's, this is not a Lancer problem. The D20 just sucks as a, as a die, you know?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: It doesn't suck as a die. It's, it's wildly —
KEITH: You could build a d20 game like a 2d6 game, it's just that they're not built that way.
AUSTIN: I don't know that you can do that, because you have so much bad space — I mean, I guess... what's the average, uh, enemy difficulty we've been rolling against, Dre? It’s been like 8 to 12, somewhere in there?
DRE: Ugh. Yeah, somewhere in there, yeah.
AUSTIN: Like, to hit? So I guess that's not too, too bad. That's like, middle of the road. But like, you know, if you're up against things that have difficulties of 15, that's a lot of dice underneath that, that you just, no matter how good you're supposed to be —
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Like, again, in this game, your regular melee, or ranged attack, does not get a plus accuracy, right, Keith?
KEITH: Uh, sorry, my ranged —
AUSTIN: You're just like, you're shooting a gun. Just, I'm shooting a gun. You don't get any bonuses to that.
KEITH: My normal gun does give me plus-1 accuracy.
AUSTIN: Okay. Okay. Right. You have an accurate gun, right, right, right.
KEITH: I specifically took a gun that gave me heat, but also was accurate.
AUSTIN: But also accuracy, right. Right. But, yeah, I just think there's like, so much volatility in what a d20 can do.
DRE: Sure, yeah.
KEITH: Yeah, I've rolled like absolute shit. I feel like I haven't made one really strong move the whole —
AUSTIN: You've been getting hits in. Like the thing is, and maybe this is the actual thing, is like, we've been thinking about your mech as like, a one-shot-one-kill sniper, and in fact, what it's been is, a reliable hitter.
KEITH: … yeah.
AUSTIN: You haven't missed.
KEITH: No, but I have, I, I have set myself up to get a bunch of bonus damage on crits —
AUSTIN: Right.
KEITH: And missed every single one of them.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Missed the crits.
AUSTIN: Missed the crit.
KEITH: Hit the —
AUSTIN: Hit the —
KEITH: The normal damage.
AUSTIN: Yeah. Yes.
KEITH: Which means that I've been doing like 4 damage, but I've been doing 4 damage against targets that I meant to do 9 damage on —
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Yeah. Yeah.
KEITH: And 12 damage on.
AUSTIN: On the plus side, I think your thing rolls over, right? That was not a one-turn thing.
KEITH: No, I can do it again next turn. Yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah.
DRE: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
KEITH: But. I'm also now... I can't move. I have to stop doing it in order to move. And —
AUSTIN: Right, I mean, you should just burn this fucker down at this point, right?
KEITH: Yeah. We have enough turns where —
AUSTIN: I think we're good.
KEITH: If this thing is gone, and I can use two movement turns, and I can —
AUSTIN: Boost and all that.
KEITH: Get to here in one turn.
AUSTIN: Yeah, right.
KEITH: You know? The, the other thing that I haven't been doing is, I can sit next to —
AUSTIN: Right.
KEITH: Jack's mech, and use a quick action to hide, and become hidden as long as I'm next to Jack.
JACK: [chuckles]
AUSTIN: That sounds great, yeah.
DRE: Mm-hm. Uh, I think you also give people proximity bonuses for like lock-on and stuff like that, too.
KEITH: I do, but we just don't have anyone that —
AUSTIN: That does lock-on.
KEITH: That gives lock-on, applies lock-on.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: I think we can all do that, we've just been not doing it, right?
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: Yeah, no one took — I think, Sylvi, I think you took 2, like, engineering points.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
KEITH: And so I think you have a little bit better of a tech, and I don't think anyone else has any.
AUSTIN: My tech is so bad.
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Anyway. I didn't mean to distract, I just wanted to like, to like —
DRE: No, yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: Dissect this, this last turn a little bit.
DRE: Sure. And it is, I mean, it's — some people really like that about d20 systems —
AUSTIN: Yes, totally.
DRE: They like the big swings, so...
AUSTIN: Yeah. Listen, I had a great turn last, last turn [chuckles].
KEITH: Yeah.
DRE: Uh-huh.
AUSTIN: And that came from critting.
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: I got a sick crit.
DRE: [unintelligible]
KEITH: Here's the other thing. I actually literally didn't know that the accuracy dice don't stack, you just take the best one.
AUSTIN: Right, you just take the best.
KEITH: So I even had another accuracy die that I didn't take, because I forgot about it, but it wouldn't have mattered, because I got a 5 and a 6 on both of those, it just wasn't enough.
AUSTIN: Uh, if he moved, he gets, I get a reaction. He was within my threat.
DRE: Okay. Yeah.
AUSTIN: All right. Sorry to interrupt by once again being kind of OP.
DRE: Ooh ooh ooh ooh!
AUSTIN: Ooh ooh ooh.
DRE: [laughing]
AUSTIN: I'm going to nanocarbon sword. Also, you have to get rid of this impaired, Dre. I'm not impaired anymore, my turn ended.
DRE: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. You're right, my bad.
AUSTIN: Uh... so...
DRE: Sure.
AUSTIN: Thank you. I don't think I'm going to get any... well, I'll get bonuses if this misses for some reason. Not bonuses. Uh... let's see... no, so I've already spent those. I'm just going to roll it. Uh...
JACK: Holy shit.
DRE: Jesus.
AUSTIN: Well, that's a crit.
DRE: Yeah. Uh-huh.
JACK: Woah!
AUSTIN: Uh-huh. I do [chuckling] I do 10 damage.
KEITH: Fuck off.
AUSTIN: [outburst of laughter]
JACK: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: I'm sorry. Ugh...
DRE: Ugh, okay, hold on. Now comes the part where I have to do math.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
DRE: Let me see... okay.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
DRE: And do...
AUSTIN: Uh-uh-uh!
DRE: I'm rolling structure damage, by the way, is what I'm doing.
AUSTIN: Oh, I love that, I love to do that.
DRE: Uh... da-da-da-da-da... okay. Roll 1d6 for structure damage. Okay. So it's just impaired until the end of the next turn.
AUSTIN: That's not bad, I'll take it.
JACK: Yeah.
AUSTIN: So what's this, what's this — I think I'm just like, he's just in range, in terms of being able to like, sneak in this last hit. But do I get —
DRE: Mm-hm.
AUSTIN: Oh, what if I catch, so he's impaired, what if I like catch some cabling or something —
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Or like some sort of computer center, I make like a —
DRE: Ooh.
AUSTIN: Last-second thrust to like, you know, do some damage.
DRE: Yeah. I think what you hit is, as I mentioned earlier, like, it has like a system where it's like, because this mech is just, in addition to huge, it's just covered in a bunch of armor plates.
AUSTIN: Right.
DRE: And I mentioned earlier, it has a system where it's just like —
JACK: It makes more.
DRE: It makes more. I think what you hit is that, right?
AUSTIN: Love it.
DRE: So the, the part of it taking structure damage is that now, a bunch of these plates have, have shot off, but the system to replace them is just no longer working.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: So it just has a bunch of like, exposed, you know, it is still a big guy, right?
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: But it just has, a lot of these armor plates are just gone now.
AUSTIN: This is, just to be clear, is this the same turn we were in when I last moved? Or is this a new turn?
DRE: No, this is the same turn.
AUSTIN: Okay. Or the same round, rather.
KEITH: Yeah, this is the end of round 2.
AUSTIN: This is the end of round 2, okay.
KEITH: Which is goofy.
AUSTIN: It is.
KEITH: [chuckling] It's, it's been round 2 for a long time.
AUSTIN: It has.
DRE: Oop, that misses. Uh...
AUSTIN: What's it doing, what did it miss?
DRE: Yeah, so it is, it is basically taking a step back from you.
AUSTIN: Right.
DRE: And kind of moving further down, kind of towards, uh... towards, uh... Martilla, and is firing its shotgun, and misses both. Wow!
AUSTIN: Love it. Well, it's impaired right now.
DRE: Wow wow wow. Love, do love to be impaired. Yeah.
AUSTIN: So it just gets a minus, it got a minus 6 on the second attack, and, huh, what does it get on the first one? On the first one, you didn't even do the minus, so... and it rolled a 2. So.
DRE: Ugh. Yeah. Gotcha. Okay. Zark, have you gone this round?
SYLVIA: I have not gone yet.
DRE: Yeah, go for it.
SYLVIA: Uh, so...
AUSTIN: Oh, are they not invisible over there anymore?
DRE: No, they are not.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
SYLVIA: Uh, I'm just trying to see some distance stuff here. Okay... I can move twice without having to overcharge?
DRE: Yeah. Because it just uses one of your quick actions, basically.
SYLVIA: Okay. I think I can move here. With that said, I'm trying to move to a specific spot without setting off these, uh... javelin missiles, is that what they're called?
DRE: Mm-hm. Yeah.
SYLVIA: I'm trying to move like that. Would that do that?
DRE: Yeah, that's good.
AUSTIN: That looks safe.
DRE: Yeah, because you're just like, ducking under where that one is.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah. And now I'm going to blast the big guy with my fuel rod gun.
AUSTIN: Let's fucking go.
DRE: Okay.
JACK: Mmm!
DRE: First he is going to shoot you with his shotgun, because, as a reaction.
SYLVIA: Okay. Well, that's not very nice.
DRE: I know. We've already covered, Saxon Clash, not a nice person.
AUSTIN: Ouch.
DRE: Uh... so that is... 8.
SYLVIA: 8?!
AUSTIN: Ugh...
DRE: Yes.
SYLVIA: 8???
DRE: Yes.
JACK: [laughing]
SYLVIA: I have to take structure damage. That got me right down to zero.
JACK: Oh, we're in it now, everybody's taking structure damage.
DRE: Mm-hm.
SYLVIA: My mech is stunned until the end of my next turn, so I can't do anything now, right?
DRE: Uh...
KEITH: I luckily avoided structure damage by taking stress instead.
AUSTIN: Yeah, by taking heat instead.
DRE: Uh, no... uh, no, yes. Stunned mechs cannot overcharge, move, or take any actions.
SYLVIA: Okay.
AUSTIN: Ugh.
DRE: Now, I will say, what you...
SYLVIA: That's my turn! [chuckles]
DRE: Mmm, hold on. How much HP did you have, before you...
SYLVIA: I had 8, exactly.
DRE: Okay. You could brace.
AUSTIN: Oh, you could brace!
DRE: And take half.
AUSTIN: Yes.
SYLVIA: Oh! Okay.
KEITH: Oh, brace is good.
AUSTIN: Brace is good.
KEITH: Brace saved my life, literally.
SYLVIA: I would... bump this back up to — oh, wait. Also I have one armor. So I would have been left with 1HP anyway.
AUSTIN: Yes, okay.
DRE: Okay. So then, yeah. You don't even have to brace!
SYLVIA: I'm gonna.
KEITH: Yeah, don't brace, just run with 1.
SYLVIA: Wait, really? What does bracing do?
DRE: No, just run with 1.
AUSTIN: Just run with 1.
DRE: Bracing, it halves the damage, but then you can only do one quick action.
SYLVIA: And I, I need normal action to shoot my cool gun.
AUSTIN and DRE: Yeah.
SYLVIA: So I'm just going to stay with 1HP.
AUSTIN: That's right.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
AUSTIN: All gas no breaks.
KEITH: Sylvi run with 1...
DRE: That's right.
SYLVIA: Yeah. I run with 1!
DRE: That's what we call her.
SYLVIA: So, uh, refresher, this is going to deal 2 heat on-hit and it will deal an extra 1d6 energy bonus damage on a hit.
DRE: Please.
SYLVIA: Uh, and it deals energy damage instead of... hey, whatever, I'm just going to roll it.
AUSTIN: And this is you ejecting your heat rods —
SYLVIA: Oh, uh, Dre, did you mark one off of this already? Because I, I don't think I should be down to 1 use. I should be down to 2 uses. Because I marked one off, as well.
DRE: Oh, I have, yeah, I have not touched one. So I trust you. I believe you.
SYLVIA: Okay. Cool. Yeah, I'm going to roll this. That's a 17, against the big guy.
DRE: Yes, that hits. Mm-hm.
SYLVIA: Okay. And then, let me roll my other d6. One second, why is this not working? 1D6 [dice roll] that's another 2 damage.
AUSTIN: So, 7 energy damage?
SYLVIA: Uh, yes.
DRE: Yes.
SYLVIA: And I am down to 2 heat now.
AUSTIN: That's so fun.
SYLVIA: The way I think this looks, I've been thinking of this as like a big 6-shooter that can only ever hold one bullet at a time —
AUSTIN and JACK: [chuckling]
SYLVIA: Because the radiation like scorches the chamber for each bullet, and it needs time to cool off —
DRE: Sure.
SYLVIA: Before you can put a new one in.
JACK: That's really good.
DRE: I love Outlaw Star.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: [chuckling] Gosh. Yeah, I think, I mean, again, you're just like, slagging more armor off of this thing.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: As your heated plasma just like globs onto it.
SYLVIA: Eat shit.
AUSTIN: Eat shit. Yeah.
All:        [laughing]
DRE: God. Uh, okay, is that your turn?
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: Okay. Uh... he went, and he went, he went... okay. That is the end of the round. Uh... before we start going into round 3, I want to check if anybody has like, hard outs or feelings on when we wanted to end tonight.
AUSTIN: My hope... I mean, I guess, I I don't know if you have reinforcements coming, but my hope is that we could wrap this up, get everybody out, and then like, tease the next, the next, final encounter —
DRE: Sure.
AUSTIN: But not actually even start it.
JACK: Yeah. I would, I would love if we could be done by 9.
DRE: Okay.
SYLVIA: That would be great, yeah.
AUSTIN: That would be fantastic.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
AUSTIN: I think that's doable.
DRE: Yeah, yes. Yeah, totally.
AUSTIN: I mean, I don't know what your prep is, but...
DRE: No, no, I'm good. Okay. So, as we're moving on to round 3, uh... I think that... boy, you know, the underrated part of this that I didn't think would be this hard is that I have to keep looking up what everybody's name is. [chuckling]
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Oh, character names?
DRE: [laughing] Yeah, character names, yeah.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh.
DRE: Uh, Teasel —
KEITH: Yeah.
DRE: You start hearing that alarm again.
KEITH: I ignore it.
JACK: Oh, no!
DRE: That siren.
AUSTIN: What happened last time? What was the —
JACK: The reinforcements showed up with granddad.
AUSTIN: Yeah, right, right, right.
KEITH: Yeah, and remember how you were being chased through the forest.
AUSTIN: Oh, this sucks.
KEITH: Uh, foul. I call foul.
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: This is foul.
AUSTIN: Oh, there's so many, and they're right behind you, the witch’s right there!
KEITH: Mm-hm. Okay.
AUSTIN: Granddad gumdrop. That's what we were calling, that was right, right? They're gumdrops? They're bubbledrops. They're double bubbles?
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
KEITH: Yeah. Is...
JACK: Gumdrops. They're not double bubbles.
AUSTIN: I mean, these two are double — that's double and bubble, right there on the right, for sure.
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: Mmm.
KEITH: Am I, am I near cover at all? Is there any cover, is like, this rock cover? Is this — behind the cliff here cover? Like, because that's a cliff there, right?
JACK: Now, something —
DRE: I mean, yes, but then they would just be like, looking over you.
JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but I can hide.
JACK: They have the high ground. Oh! You can hide when you get into cover, right?
DRE: You can hide as an action. That is an action you can do.
KEITH: Yeah, and I have good hide stuff.
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: I like, have, I have two hide skills.
AUSTIN: You should go first, we need to figure out what's happening here.
KEITH: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. So, as long as I can get somewhere that is not in their line of sight, right? As in behind cover or far enough away, then I can hide. And, as long as... I'm not in their line of sight at the end of my turn, I start my next turn still hidden. Even if they move into, my, like, line of sight of me.
DRE: Okay.
KEITH: I believe. I believe that is the case. I keep targeting myself by accident. Uh... and so, are we saying that this, uh... no... are we saying that this is... this is hidden over here? Is this line of sight of anybody?
DRE: Yeah, no, I think that would break... do you have to be not within line of sight of anyone?
KEITH: Uh, correct.
DRE: Wait, where are you looking at for this? Just so I know.
KEITH: Right here.
DRE: No, but are you like, trying to do like a specific, like, move or specialization that you have?
KEITH: No, I'm just trying to hide, and my special — I'll read what it has. I have prowl: during your turn, gain the following benefits. Entering line of sight of hostile characters or moving from cover does not stop you from being hidden. You can pass freely through, but not end your turn, in enemy spaces. You can hide even in plain sight of enemies.
AUSTIN: Oh, well, you can just do that.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
KEITH: Oh, okay. I forgot about that part.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
KEITH: So I guess I can go anywhere and then hide.
AUSTIN: Mm-hm.
KEITH: Because I can hide in plain sight of enemies, as long as I'm not in their spaces.
DRE: Mm-hm. Yeah. So, yeah, and hiding is just a quick action for you.
KEITH: So then I should go — Okay. So I'm going to move here. And then, hide.
DRE: Uh, were you going to attack or anything this round?
KEITH: Uh, no, that is all — uh, yes, I am going to attack. Uh...
DRE: Right. Because if you're going to do that, you should do that before you hide.
AUSTIN: Yeah, you've got a quick attack, right?
KEITH: Right, right. So I will do a quick attack and then hide. So what do we think, I shoot behind me?
AUSTIN: No, no. We're not going to — we're just run from them, right?
JACK: Yeah, unless it becomes immediately pressing. Which it kind of is.
KEITH: Then actually what I'm going to do is, I'm going to take the hard cover of standing next to the big one.
AUSTIN: Mmm, mm-hm.
KEITH: I'm going to stand next to, what is — Martilla's mech called?
AUSTIN: Martilla?
JACK: Under the Radar is Martilla's mech.
KEITH: Under the Radar, right. So I'm going to just move adjacent to Under the Radar. So that's another 5. Uh... let's just do the full 6. No. There's no... there's no place to do that. That's fine. So I'm just going to move right here, hide, and also I'm in, in cover.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: Hard cover.
AUSTIN: Uh, do you tell us about this group that showed up behind you?
KEITH: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like way, like when they show up, I'm already complaining about it.
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: [chuckles]
DRE: Gosh. Okay.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): I do think it's time for us to go.
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): How do you think those kids we rescued are doing?
DRE: Probably fine. Hey, you know what, that's —
AUSTIN: That was me asking... characters, that was not you. I, I believe, I hope, they better be fine. If we get through this and something happened to them, I'll be pissed.
JACK: I mean, I think that's probably what Martilla says.
JACK (as MARTILLA): They better be fine.
AUSTIN: Yeah. Yeah.
DRE: Okay. Uh... Zark?
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: I need you to make a systems save.
AUSTIN: Ugh.
SYLVIA: Cool, I love that.
AUSTIN: Hm hm!
SYLVIA: I have a zero in that, so let's see how that goes. 1.
AUSTIN: Buddy...
SYLVIA: I rolled a 1.
AUSTIN: You did roll a 1.
DRE: Yeah...
JACK: Oh, no!
AUSTIN: That's a, that's...
KEITH: Is that enough?
AUSTIN: [laughing]
JACK: Oh...
SYLVIA: Is that good?
AUSTIN: Is that good?
DRE: Is that good?
SYLVIA: Was the score to beat zero?
DRE: Uh... you take 3 heat.
AUSTIN: Oh. Okay.
SYLVIA: Okay. That’s great.
DRE: And are, are immobilized.
AUSTIN: Eugh.
SYLVIA: That's — you know what, honestly? I can work with it.
KEITH: [chuckling]
DRE: Fair.
SYLVIA: No, sincerely, I've got an idea now.
AUSTIN: Ooh, I love that.
DRE: Yeah, no, I believe it.
KEITH: Did you just clear 4 heat, you got 3 back, and so now you're back in the danger zone?
SYLVIA: Yeah, but now I'm back in my danger zone. Yeah.
KEITH: Nice.
SYLVIA: Which means I get to do —
AUSTIN: Fucking — don't let her get in her danger zone, you know?
SYLVIA: Yeah!
DRE: God.
SYLVIA: Listen, life on the edge.
AUSTIN: That's right.
DRE: Uh... and… what? This… oh, that misses. Okay.
SYLVIA: Whew.
DRE: Okay. Yeah, I think... you get immobilized, so you probably get like an error message of that your leg systems are impaired. But then there was also just a brief pop-up that was like, “also, we stopped the virus. That is the 986th virus that your firewall system has blocked for you.”
AUSTIN: [laughing]
SYLVIA: Perfect.
KEITH: You know what's funny? I think that means that now, everyone has had an attack miss them except for me and my 15 evasion.
SYLVIA: [cackling]
JACK: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Oh...
DRE: Well, a lot of what has been thrown against you has also been E-defense-based stuff, too.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: Has it?
AUSTIN: Some of it.
DRE: I mean, that's —
KEITH: I don't think, I think all of my stuff has been like, direct attack, like kinetic attacks.
AUSTIN: You haven't been hack attacked?
KEITH: No, I have not been hack attacked, not once.
AUSTIN: Damn.
DRE: Well, I can't do anything to you now. You're hidden, so...
KEITH: Yeah, I'm hidden and in hard cover. So even if you wanted to —
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Ooh.
DRE: Can't do shit. Okay. Uh, it bounces back to you all.
AUSTIN: What are we thinking? What's our game plan? You had a game plan. What's your, what's your game plan? You said you, you figured out a plan.
SYLVIA: Oh, me?
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
SYLVIA: Uh, I have a thing that would make me immobilized anyway, and makes me do —
AUSTIN: Ah.
SYLVIA: Faster, cooler shit.
DRE: We love to do faster, cooler shit.
SYLVIA: Though I guess I don't know if I'm in range to deal with... let me see, hold on. Oh, no. I'm in range.
All:        [laughing]
SYLVIA: Yeah, no, this is going to be fine.
DRE: God.
SYLVIA: So, my, one of my systems is the Tlaloc protocol. [different pronunciation] Tlaloc? I actually don’t know. Your NHP can rapidly fire and retarget your weapons far faster than thought. You become immobilized until the start of your next turn, however, during this time. You may reroll each missed melee or ranged attack roll once, choosing a new target within the attack's range.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
JACK: Oh, fun.
SYLVIA: If the attack is part of an area of effect, it must target a character in the same area. Any given target can't be hit more than once as part of the same action. So, basically I can roll to attack, and if I miss I can hit someone else.
AUSTIN: What does this look like — like, what's the immobilization look like, in terms of like... like, what's that physically look like?
SYLVIA: I feel like I've hit the cowboy thing so much that it's like, in a duel stance now, you know? [chuckling]
AUSTIN: Yeah, sure, good. Yeah.
KEITH: Do you reveal a belt buckle with a shotgun in it?
SYLVIA: Yeah, and also the belt buckle has wired me to the ground, so I don't move.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: [chuckles]
SYLVIA: Yeah, so I think — let me look at my weapons here. I'm probably... so, I can use my ordinance now because I haven't moved yet, correct?
DRE: Correct.
AUSTIN: Yeah. Let's do it.
SYLVIA: Okay. I'm going to use my grenade launcher on the big fella.
DRE: Sure. On the Big Show.
SYLVIA: Yeah, the Big Show.
AUSTIN: The Big Show is here!
SYLVIA: Uh... oh, actually does — question — this has a huge blast radius, so I'd actually probably take one damage myself if —
DRE: Yeah. Uh, you could target it to where it's hitting, like, far enough away from that you wouldn't, yeah.
SYLVIA: Okay. I am doing that, then. Uh... that's... well, this is my first turn, so this does do an extra d6 and afflict 2 heat, because I am in my danger zone.
AUSTIN: Your zone, yeah, uh-huh.
DRE: Sure, yeah. Yeah, give me that extra d6.
SYLVIA: I was like, why am I typing this, I can just click a thing. [dice roll] That's a 6.
AUSTIN: Hell yeah.
DRE: That's pretty good.
SYLVIA: Also, both of these count as energy damage.
DRE: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah. Uh... and then I'm going to use my, uh, can I use my heavy launcher here still?
DRE: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Okay. I'm going to use that on the, uh, like, furthest, the leftmost guy over — I guess not the leftmost, there's two of them here. The second leftmost guy.
DRE: The missile launcher person?
SYLVIA: Yeah. The missile launcher.
DRE: Umbrella.
SYLVIA: Only one of us gets to launch missiles around here.
DRE: I know, yeah. They're jacking your shit.
SYLVIA: Get your own bit.
JACK: [chuckles]
DRE: They — you have javelin rockets, they have javelin rockets, there can only be one.
SYLVIA: That fucked them up!
AUSTIN: Oh my god. Holy shit.
DRE and SYLVIA: [laughing]
DRE: God.
SYLVIA: That was 9 damage. I don't get any of my extra stuff on any more of these rolls this turn, by the way.
DRE: Okay.
AUSTIN: But you did do 20... you rolled a 24. Which is not bad.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: That's a nat20 that you rolled.
DRE: Hm!
SYLVIA: Is it?
AUSTIN: It looks like it. Yeah! If I open it up, it's nat20, yeah.
SYLVIA: What's up?
AUSTIN: And then your accuracy is —
SYLVIA: I told you I'm good at d20 games!
AUSTIN: Yeah, you did say that.
SYLVIA: They just like me. Uh, I'm trying to — okay, I think, can I use anything else this turn? I'm just wondering if I can...
AUSTIN: Overcharge, right?
SYLVIA: [laughing], I have the Sharanga missiles that can hit two targets, so I could target the other two that I haven't targeted yet.
AUSTIN: What's your heat at? And what's, how much does an overcharge cost you?
SYLVIA: Oh, right. I, I don't want to overcharge, because if I overcharge it's 1d6, and my heat's at 5.
AUSTIN: Oh my god. Wait, what's your heat cap?
SYLVIA: 8.
AUSTIN: Oh, okay. Yeah.
SYLVIA: Yeah. I didn't want a high heat cap, because I wanted to —
AUSTIN: Yeah, you gotta be in the zone. Yeah.
SYLVIA: Be in the zone pretty frequently. But at the same time... I'm in the danger zone frequently. Uh... but I might call it there, because if I don't, I don't want to overcharge. So I think that'll be it for this turn. All right.
DRE: Okay. All righty.
SYLVIA: I'm glad I got to use that. I wasn't expecting to use my immobilize thing, honestly.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: Yeah. Worked out great.
DRE: Uh, let's let you go. I'm trying to — I've got to relearn what this person does.
AUSTIN: Grandpa?
DRE: No, grandpa already went.
AUSTIN: Oh, witch.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: No, don't like witch. We gotta keep moving.
DRE: Uh, I don't, I'm not — I'll look that up while somebody else is going. We'll just go ahead and move 1, 2, 3, 4... uh… So, one of the gumdrops that broke out of the tree forest is advancing and draws down on Martilla.
JACK: Great.
DRE: Uh, that does 6 damage.
AUSTIN: Yikes.
JACK: Oof! Okay, uh, so it does 4 damage. Oh, no, wait, am I still shredded? No.
DRE: No, you are not.
JACK: Okay, cool. So that does 4 damage, taking me down to 13 health.
DRE: Mm-hm. And it's just going to keep pressing forward here. Okay. That is its turn. So basically it is, I image it's busting out of the trees and it's just charging and firing at you.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): We really have to move.
AUSTIN: Uh... do you want to go, Jack, or should I go? Should I try to knock this guy down, try to maybe get a finish in while...
JACK: Yeah, and then that, that sort of tidies things up a little?
AUSTIN: That's my hope. Uh, so I'm going to, I'm going to do the... I want to close distance, I think it's just more important to walk up. You know how in fighting games, the thing that's really hard to learn to do is just hold right, and just like, walk into somebody and not try to do a jump kick to get close, because they'll just anti-air you?
JACK: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: You know what I'm talking about?
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: I'm just going to have to hold the stick, and just walk towards this big motherfucker.
JACK: Very unusual for you today.
AUSTIN: It is. But what I don't want is to try — I don't know what its threat is. And I don't want to try to grapple it and miss the grapple, and get shot out of the air. I guess... hm. If that happens, I'm still, I just have to get... if I can get to here — where's 3? Yeah, you know what? Fuck it, I'm doing the jump kick.
DRE and JACK: [laughing]
SYLVIA: Fuck yes!
AUSTIN: I'm going to —
SYLVIA: A mech just doing a rider kick.
JACK: So remember we're in a fighting game...
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: Uh, when you, when you want to just hold right patiently—
AUSTIN: No, I'm not. I'm not. I'm going to patiently hold right. I'm going to walk in, because I can at least walk in to here, which is close enough range for all of my melee weapons. So I'm just walking to here, Dre. Do you see where I'm pointing?
DRE: Sure.
AUSTIN: Does this trigger a reaction?
DRE: Yes.
AUSTIN: Okay. Hit me with the reaction. Or try to, I guess. Boom. Hey. Boom. Hey. Wait, can I not sit there? Why is this not letting me move?
KEITH: Do you have the wrong thing selected?
AUSTIN: I, I'm draggin’, but I can't —
DRE: Oh, also, well I just did a thing, and it didn't happen.
AUSTIN: Should we all — oh, it all — woah, woah.
DRE: It all happened.
AUSTIN: It all happened.
DRE: Well, it missed.
AUSTIN: It did miss.
DRE: You're here.
AUSTIN: I'm here.
DRE: It's all good.
AUSTIN: So, with my first —
DRE: Yeah, the shotgun pellets go whizzing over your head as you [unintelligible]
AUSTIN: Yeah, I duck under them, and then I'm going to attack with my sword, my regular little sword, my little baby sword, [chuckling] which has two range. You know, my baby sword?
JACK: [chuckling]
DRE: Your normal sword, yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: My chain axe, is what it actually is.
KEITH: Baby chain axe.
AUSTIN: My baby chain axe.
KEITH: For babies.
AUSTIN: Uh, so I get plus-1 accuracy because it's, it's the first melee attack I've made with a main melee weapon my turn. Uh... uh, so, let's give that... a roll... uh, that is a crit.
DRE: Yep.
AUSTIN: Then, so, when I hit with a main weapon, I get my blademaster die. So that goes there. That shreds him on a crit, so he has no armor.
JACK: Oh!
AUSTIN: And it does 5 damage. So I continue to peel away those armor pieces. Uh... and then, with the axe still like, cut, what I'm trying to do is like open up a spot for — I throw the chain axe in, and I want to clink it underneath a big armor plate, and then I pull on it and kind of like open up an armored chunk to then do this big heavy swing with my second attack, with the big heavy nanocarbon sword...
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Which... double-checking, that I don't have anything else I need to worry about here. And all the shit is, if I miss or if I crit. Okay. Uh... is he still impaired?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: But impaired doesn't give you a bonus, right?
DRE: Impaired doesn't give you a bonus.
AUSTIN: It just makes it harder — okay. I'll just roll it straight. That's a miss. Oh, but on a miss, I can — I think on a miss I have to retarget someone else, which I don't [unintelligible]
DRE: Well, you still have reliable 3.
AUSTIN: I still have reliable 3. So I still do —
DRE: What does it look like when you end Saxton Clash?
JACK: Yes! 
AUSTIN: Okay.
SYLVIA: Let's go!
AUSTIN: It's the thing I set up, right? Which is, I open up that panel, which, we don't have to zoom in here, but it's the panel covering the cockpit, unless you want to keep —
JACK: Oh, sure.
AUSTIN: Unless you really want Saxton to live.
DRE: No, I don't care.
AUSTIN: And then it's just like, you know, it's just, uh, uh, a sort of wide angle shot of the nanocarbon sword pushing in a little bit, and then there's a beat, and then there's the push all the way the rest in, like you're trying to like skewer something. And then it just like, it falls. It falls down to its knees, and I rip the nanocarbon sword out, which is almost like a big spear, and the oil and everything else goes flying in the air, in like a semi-circle. And then I lower it into the river to clean the oil and blood off.
JACK: Wow.
AUSTIN: That's my turn.
JACK: So that's a whale, that's a whale kill.
AUSTIN: That's a whale kill, yeah, uh-huh. That's a whale kill, if ever there was one.
DRE: Gosh. No. Okay...
JACK: I love that there's not a model for large mech wreckage —
AUSTIN: [laughing]
JACK: So when it's done, it just put like [chuckles] 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 little guys down.
DRE: Yep.
KEITH: Wait, that wasn't one big enemy! It was 7 enemies in a trenchcoat!
AUSTIN: No wonder!
JACK: [laughing]
DRE: [chuckling] That's why he was so tough! Yeah. Uh, I'm just going to keep us moving here. The other Ordinance that came out is also going to forward here. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7... and draw down on Martilla again.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): We do have to get out of here, but I, I want it known for the record... we could take 'em.
KEITH: I, I can get, I can get to the... from here —
AUSTIN: Can you get there?
KEITH: In one turn I can get there.
AUSTIN: Okay.
JACK: The slow, heavy arm of the cannon just turns, as if in answer —
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Uh-huh.
JACK: To, to Narmine.
DRE: [laughing] ugh...
JACK: A crane arm.
DRE: Okay, so that was another 6 to you, Martilla, I guess 4 after your armor, right?
JACK: Yeah.
KEITH: We've got to take them, really.
AUSTIN: No, we don't. We're good. I mean, this turn —
DRE: No, you're home free now.
AUSTIN: We're home free now. How many — what's your movement, Jack?
JACK: 2!
AUSTIN: So that means you can move 6 in a single turn. That's 2 turns and we're good.
JACK: I could move... uh, 6 and take the heat, yes.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: I was trying to work out if you were including the —
AUSTIN: Well no, there's not even heat, right? Because it's one for free.
DRE: No, you can only boost once.
AUSTIN: Oh, you can only boost once.
DRE: But you can boost a second time if you take heat.
AUSTIN: Yep, that's what I'm — oh, okay, I see, I see, I see. Right right right.
DRE: Yeah. So you can only boost a second time as like your overcharge.
AUSTIN: Right, I gotcha.
KEITH: Right.
AUSTIN: I did not realize that.
JACK: I'll tell you what I could do, though. I could, I could deploy a turret [chuckling] and then.
AUSTIN: And then move.
JACK: But that would, but, you know, it's any successful attack.
AUSTIN: That's the thing, right?
JACK: It might help us passively take out the guys, but it would require one of us to... oh, and also, I don't count for my own turret attacks. I looked this up.
AUSTIN: Oh, what? That's silly.
JACK: I am not allied with myself, which is a metaphor if there ever was one.
SYLVIA: Damn.
AUSTIN: Wow, yeah, that's Martilla.
JACK: But, yeah, other people have to do that thing. Uh, but if I'm going to do this additional boost —
KEITH: Yeah, there's just the worry of you're taking damage from these things, and then also you're taking, you're going to hit —
AUSTIN: You're going to hit this rocket.
KEITH: These missiles.
AUSTIN: But listen, Jack, if you can get next to me, I can drag you the rest of the way.
KEITH: Oh, actually, does — oh, maybe I'm, maybe I'm — Dre, have you been re-placing these every turn?
DRE: Yes.
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, that's why they change.
KEITH: Okay. Because they do end at the start of the next turn, right?
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Yeah.
JACK: Yeah. I could shuffle... yeah, I could shuffle forward one like this, Austin.
AUSTIN: I see.
JACK: Oh, right, no. How do I get past Sylvi? Am I allowed to move freely —
DRE: Yeah, you can move through Sylvi, that's fine, yeah.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
KEITH: But what if you can't [chuckling] move through Sylvi, you can only move onto?
AUSTIN: Great question.
DRE: That, that is problematic, yes.
AUSTIN: That's a problem. Yeah.
JACK: 1... 2... and then I take heat. 3, 4 — no, I'm on Sylvi. [laughing]
KEITH, DRE, SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: But you won't take heat until — oh, I see, yeah, yeah, yeah.
JACK: No, I was saying, if I was just doing the maths of it now —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: It, it puts me, like —
SYLVIA: [laughing]
AUSTIN: We could do — I see, yeah, Sylvi's just too — this is just, yeah.
KEITH: You've just, I think what —
SYLVIA: I'm sorry for blocking you off.
JACK: Sylvi, you can go first, right? Or you've been already.
SYLVIA: Yeah, I went, yeah. And I'm also immobilized until the end of this turn, so...
KEITH: How about, how about, if you, Jack, if you can send out your turret.
JACK: That turret simulator.
KEITH: If you can set up the turret, you can at least move one space, right? I will still be in hard cover under you. I can take two turns, and I can knock one of these people if I hit them? All I have to do is hit them, and I think I knock them.
JACK: So you're saying I don't boost, I don't overcharge at all.
KEITH: Not — yeah, wait until Sylvi moves and then overcharge —
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: When you can actually get 6 clean spaces out of it.
JACK: Yeah, okay, so... let's see.
KEITH: Because you have the last one this round, right? So you can go —
AUSTIN: They still go a little bit, right? But otherwise...
KEITH: Right, I mean, yeah, of us, yeah.
JACK: Uh... yeah.
KEITH: And you could also give me a, a die, to —
JACK: Yeah, I mean, take a die. Just for free. Just hanging onto a bunch of die from Under the Radar. Uh...
KEITH: No-no, I did use my other one.
JACK: Okay. Uh... let me just check this off. I now have no leadership die.
KEITH: Oh, you only have 3 ever, okay.
JACK: It doesn't let me check off the last box. I can, I get them back with the, like restoring action. The long rest.
KEITH: Gotcha.
AUSTIN: Right.
JACK: Uh, it's not letting me check off the last box, Dre. I'll just remember that, if it says I have one, I actually have none.
DRE: Okay.
JACK: And then, yeah. So, I'm going to make my move here, just forward one. [chuckling] Hi, Sylvi. You're still in hard cover, Keith.
KEITH: Yep.
JACK: Uh... I'm going to deploy one of my turrets as —
DRE: Captain is spinning.
AUSTIN: Mm-hm.
JACK: As a quick action. And I'm going to put it... I don't think I can. Oh, no, I can. No, I can't.
AUSTIN: Mmm.
KEITH: [laughing]
DRE: Womp.
JACK: Could you put it on... [clicks tongue] now, where's a good place for it? Almost on that right-hand tent, do you think? Or do we want to have it further out? Yeah, let's have it further out. It gives them problems. Uh...
DRE: I think you should be able to move it.
JACK: Let’s see, can I move it? Yes, I can.
DRE: Okay.
JACK: Uh, yeah. On the other side of the river here is within, is within range of folks. Uh... so that's fine to me. And then I have one more quick action, and I'm going to just... let's see. I could have fired my weapon here, if I, you know, still had it.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
JACK: But I don't.
AUSTIN: Oh.
JACK: So instead, I'm going to, let me see if I... yes! I'm going to throw a roller grenade, Dre.
DRE: Please. I love this.
AUSTIN: This sounds great.
JACK: This is a quick action. Uh, it says, instead of throwing this grenade, it rolls along a line, 10-path directly from you, bouncing over obstructions and obstacles up to size 1, and passing through holes or gaps no smaller than size 1 and a half — sorry, size half. It detonates when it moves through or adjacent to the space occupied by any character. They just succeed on an agility save and take 1d6 plus 3 explosive damage — sorry, or take 1d6 plus 3 explosive damage and be knocked 3 spaces in the direction the grenade was rolled.
AUSTIN: Love it.
JACK: On a success, they take half damage and aren't knocked back.
KEITH: Oh, are you going to get the gumdrops? That would be great.
JACK: I'm going to try to bowl these gumdrops back down towards —
AUSTIN: Yeah!
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: The deployment zone.
AUSTIN: Yeah!
JACK: Uh, so. This, the way this works is... I hit this roller grenade button.
AUSTIN: Uh-huh. They just, they just need to make saves. They need to make agility saves.
JACK: Oh, that does nothing — oh, yeah, right. They just need to make saves.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. They just need to save, yeah.
JACK: I can tell you what this looks like, which is that, uh, almost like a bomb bay opens on the belly of Under the Radar, and like a little winch crane like, elevator, lowers. And on it is a bomb, about the size of like a servitor from Destiny, like a —
SYLVIA: Oh my god.
JACK: It's a huge thing.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
SYLVIA: Big ol' orb.
JACK: It's a big old orb. And little jets on the back of it fire, and it just starts, like, rolling sinisterly towards —
AUSTIN: [laughing]
JACK: These, towards these gumdrops.
DRE: Gosh. Okay, they both fail.
AUSTIN: Yes.
DRE: So give me your damage roll.
JACK: So they take 1d6 plus 3 explosive damage.
AUSTIN: And get knocked 3 spaces south.
DRE: I'll go ahead and move them while you're rolling damage.
AUSTIN: Wait, do they got knocked in — wait, wait, wait. Wait, Dre. They don't get knocked up there.
DRE: Oh yeah. They just get knocked into the wall.
AUSTIN: And doesn't that take them damage, because they have to move another spot?
DRE: Ooh.
AUSTIN: I think if you get knocked back into a thing...
DRE: Ooh. I don't... oh, I think you're right, and I don't remember —
KEITH: Impact damage? Is it the same as like a fall?
JACK: Oh, sure. [dice roll] And they take 4 damage each, which isn't great, because I rolled a 1 on a 1d6.
KEITH: Love that plus 3.
JACK: But that plus 3 was really helpful.
AUSTIN: Maybe I'm wrong about this, maybe it just stops the movement. I swear I saw a thing about that sort of knockback, though. Like, there's a whole build you can build around this.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Oh, maybe that's from this, though. Maybe it's like, with this system —
DRE: Like a special talent or something.
AUSTIN: Yeah, it could be that, it could be that, that would make sense.
DRE: Maybe what I could do is just knock them back further this way.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I guess that makes sense. Yeah.
DRE: So like that guy's still has space to go, so yeah. Okay.
KEITH: Sick.
AUSTIN: That's great, I love that.
JACK: Uh, yeah. So on my turn I shuffled forward, deployed the turn, and bowled a bowling ball at these gumdrops. Uh, the explosive, uh, doesn't fully destroy the rolling bomb component, so I think there's just like this weird half-sphere just smoking in the middle of the battlefield.
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Truly fantastic. All right.
DRE: Okay. Uh... so, the witch is just moving forward here. And that's her turn. Uh...
JACK: I've got three more of those, let 'em come.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah, this is great.
DRE: Uh, and here's, here's a weird thing.
JACK: Uh-oh.
DRE: The three that are up here on this ridge to the left?
AUSTIN: Yeah?
DRE: They fall back.
AUSTIN: Oh, fuck. Okay.
KEITH: Oh, that is a weird thing.
AUSTIN: That is a weird thing — I guess, listen. For what it's worth, my next turn was [laughing] going to be to charge at them, grapple them, and go to town.
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Uh, I guess they lost their commander, right? I'm sure that's, that's morale-breaking, I'm sure this is —
DRE: Probably.
AUSTIN: We should be very happy about this.
JACK: Or there's a massive area bombardment coming, or...
AUSTIN: No, no, no, it's fine.
DRE: Oh, you know, here's the thing. Do you know what a sonic boom sounds like?
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: Okay. Uh...
KEITH: Yeah, it's —
DRE: One of those rips across the battlefield.
SYLVIA: Great.
AUSTIN: Don't like it. We've got to go. We cannot be here anymore.
DRE: As a squadron of flyers comes in from the east.
AUSTIN: No [laughing] what? Look at these motherfuckers!
KEITH: And they also have little arms. You can't be a stupid bird mech and still have little grabby arms!
AUSTIN: We know what these are! We've fought these before, in a different system.
JACK: Oh, shit.
AUSTIN: These look like the ones that we, remember? Remember? Do you remember, what were these called? I mean, you probably named them a different thing.
KEITH: No, I don't remember. 
DRE: I just called them Wings.
AUSTIN: When did they show up? Uh, Motion had these, remember? When you were defending fort Icebreaker after taking it, these are one of the things that like —
JACK: Yeah!
AUSTIN: I want to say, Leap jumped up and knocked one of these motherfuckers out of the sky.
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: Miss Leap.
DRE: Martilla, what can you tell me about the Columnar commander Pallion Storm?
JACK: Aloof. Uh, stalks birdlike down the metal hallways of the artillery deployment. And in fact, you get the impression that spending any time on the artillery deployment... what pronouns do they use?
DRE: Uh, she/her.
JACK: She feels like she has this thin coating of grease or grime on her, the more time she spends on the artillery deployment. Peers down her, you know, sharp, pointed features. There's a big poster on one of the walls of her, saying, you know, commander so-and-so, and she's giving this massive, smiling, toothy, grin on it. But nobody's seen her make that expression after the photoshoot.
DRE: Whew. All right. We are getting close to 9. So do we want to wrap up here? Or do we want to try to —
AUSTIN: Was that the end of a turn? Or a round, rather?
DRE: Yeah. This is, this is the start of the fourth round, yeah.
AUSTIN: Oof. God. We're so close, but I don't know if we're going to make it.
SYLVIA: Yeah.
AUSTIN: How much can you move, Sylvi? Because you can move again.
SYLVIA: I can move 6, uh, like my speed is 6, so I can move up to 12 if I push it.
DRE: Yeah, you can get there.
AUSTIN: You can move 12. How far can you move, Jack?
JACK: Uh, the maximum I can move, and you can correct me if I'm wrong here, Dre, is 6. No, it's 4.
DRE: Yeah, that is —
JACK: No, because I can only —
DRE: No, it's 6, yeah.
KEITH: That's with taking heat.
AUSTIN: Yeah, 6 with heat.
JACK: How, how's that possible? Because it costs me 2 to move, and I can't boost twice.
AUSTIN: You can boost for free —
DRE: You can if you overcharge.
KEITH: You can boost twice and you take heat, so you can boost twice, you take two movements —
JACK: That only gets me 4.
AUSTIN: And then you boost after that.
KEITH: For heat.
DRE: And then you — yeah. For heat.
JACK: Oh, I just, okay, I see.
KEITH: One, one boost for free, one boost for heat.
AUSTIN: Uh, boost, boost lets you move your whole movement.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Again. So your movement's 2 —
JACK: Yeah, so I —
AUSTIN: Then you boost for 2 more, is 4.
JACK: And take heat.
AUSTIN: And then you would take — the first boost doesn't, the first boost doesn't take heat. Boost is just a move you can do as a quick action, it's a free —
JACK: Okay. [chuckling] I see.
AUSTIN: You see? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I, for the last few rounds, I was pretty sure there was a confusion about this. Boost is just move again. Boost is just sprint, in XCom terms, you know?
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Yeah.
JACK: It's move again, I see.
AUSTIN: It's just move again.
JACK: I thought that boost was what move was called all the time, so I was confused.
AUSTIN: No, no, yeah.
JACK: All right. So I can move 6.
AUSTIN: You can move 6.
DRE: Which puts you right outside there.
AUSTIN: I can get you over the finish line, yeah, and I can drag you the rest of the way.
KEITH: Yeah?
JACK: So the order of operations here is Sylvi goes —
AUSTIN: Yeah, if — I mean, you can get there, right, Keith?
KEITH: Yeah, I got it easy.
JACK: Showoff. [chuckles]
AUSTIN: If we can survive a turn of just moving, which I think we can, because sitting and fighting is only going to make us get hit more.
JACK: There is a chance I might get heat overloaded, but —
AUSTIN: I'll still drag you the rest [laughing] of the way.
KEITH: [laughing]
AUSTIN: In fact, you might not need to. I think I might have enough to just, if all I'm doing is dragging you.
JACK: Yeah, let's see, yeah, all right, let's do it.
KEITH: Okay.
AUSTIN: Then if this breaks bad, then I think it's pretty funny to come in next time —
JACK: On like, well, we're fucked.
KEITH: Well, mine is easy, so, should I get mine out of the way?
AUSTIN: No, because if —
KEITH: Mine is the only one that's not complicated —
AUSTIN: No, because if —
KEITH: Oh, because if we want to get —
AUSTIN: If we can't get, if we [chuckling] can't get Jack out, then we need to fight, right?
KEITH: … yes.
AUSTIN: So —
JACK: This is a lot of care that you're giving to a Pact artillery officer.
AUSTIN: You've done some fighting, I'm pretty impressed. I'm giving you shit. I used to kill people for a living for money, so like, I don't really have a, you know what I mean? This is not about a cause for me, you know?
JACK: No, no. Join the club!
AUSTIN: Right.
JACK: Uh, well, sort of. Uh, but yeah, okay.
AUSTIN: [chuckles]
JACK: I just wanted to make sure that, that we had at least addressed on some level the ramifications of, of the Captain dragging —
AUSTIN: Yeah. The Captain is not a true believer of the Hyphan cause. The Captain has signed up for a job, and the job requires our big gun to stay with us.
JACK: Yes. That makes sense.
KEITH: The, the hesitancy at the beginning was like, are you going to even help us?
AUSTIN: Yeah, exactly.
KEITH: Because you're, because you do have a cause, it seems.
AUSTIN: Right, right. And it's the opposite of this.
JACK: [laughing] Yes.
KEITH: Right.
AUSTIN: So, is this Sylvi first?
JACK: Sylvi's up first?
SYLVIA: I would be happy to. So, I'm going to move, I think moving 6 gets me there. And then I'm just going to move again to get like, deep in the extraction zone.
AUSTIN: Yeah, get deep in the, yeah, get deep in the zone, yes.
SYLVIA: Oh my gosh.
AUSTIN: Hm...
SYLVIA: [laughs] Okay, who's next?
JACK: Do I come rumbling forward a little, Austin?
AUSTIN: Well, they go next, unfortunately.
JACK: Oh, I am so, I am so used to these systems where —
AUSTIN: I know, yeah. I get it.
SYLVIA: Where they wait politely for us to kill them.
JACK: Assassin's Creed style, they all [chuckles] stand round us in a semi-circle.
DRE: [laughing] Uh, okay. Let's just do...
AUSTIN: I can go 1, grapple, 1, 2, 3, 4. Yeah, I think we're good, I think that we're going to be good. If we can survive this onslaught.
KEITH: [breathes in through teeth] I don't know...
AUSTIN: You're hidden, you can't even be targeted right now.
KEITH: No, but I can be hit if these things drop bombs.
AUSTIN: Oh, I see what you're saying, yeah. That's fair. I'm going to hit it as it moves into — uh, maybe I should save my reaction, just in case.
DRE: Well, I mean, they're also up in the air.
AUSTIN: Oh, that's true.
KEITH: But you have grapple fly.
AUSTIN: I do have grapple fly. But I think that that's, is my melee — are they more than three up in the air?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I can't do shit.
DRE: They're fighter jets.
AUSTIN: Or, I could shoot them with a rifle, but that's boring.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Are they more than 5 in the air?
KEITH: Hey!
AUSTIN: Sorry, from, from — I have an energy rifle. I don't do anything cool with it.
KEITH: No, I get it.
DRE: Let's see... that is 6.
AUSTIN: 6 HP?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: Does it armor pierce, or not?
DRE: No.
AUSTIN: It doesn't. So, I survive, I take 5...
DRE: So, yeah, it just does a strafing run of missiles on you.
AUSTIN: Great, great. I'm just holding up my axe as if it's a shield, basically.
JACK: [chuckles]
AUSTIN: So yeah, Jack, I do think you move up to, where you can move up to, right?
JACK: Yep. Okay. So, this is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
AUSTIN: You have the heat to burn, you're good?
JACK: Yeah, it costs me 1 heat, right?
AUSTIN: Have you overcharged before?
JACK: Uh, nope.
AUSTIN: Then yeah, it costs you 1 heat.
DRE: Yeah, you're good.
JACK: Yeah, I'm now at 11 heat out of 12.
AUSTIN: Oh my god.
JACK: Smoke is starting to pour out of the open hatch.
AUSTIN: Ugh, that’s scary.
DRE: Mm-hm. It's probably fine.
AUSTIN: It's going to be fine.
DRE: Uh, okay... we'll just have these guys keep moving forward here. Are they 5? Woop woop woop — no, 4. I don't think...
AUSTIN: Are they in range? They might be able to —
DRE: Barely.
AUSTIN: They can hit me. They can try.
DRE: Yeah, just barely.
AUSTIN: I think... [nervously] I think I'll be okay? I just have to make it through this last one. [chuckles] It would be very funny if they crit me and like knock me out, and then this whole plan — yes, okay, they got a negative 1 on the roll. This is what you like to see.
JACK: [laughing]
DRE: Yeah, it still does 2, because it's reliable.
AUSTIN: Has reliable? Okay, I can take that, though.
KEITH: Is that your armor?
AUSTIN: That's my armor. My armor, no, my armor's 1, but I can take, I can take 1 hit, I'm fine. Still have the HP.
KEITH: Okay.
AUSTIN: All right.
KEITH: This is, this is so close.
AUSTIN: I think we're good, though, because I can get to here, easy.
KEITH: Yeah.
AUSTIN: That's within my movement, and then I grapple. You know, I run past you, basically — I just targeted myself again, Jesus. I run past you and like harpoon around — it's like the opposite of trying to take down an AT-AT in Star Wars, right?
JACK and DRE: [chuckling]
AUSTIN: But, by doing the same thing, which is like, I'm still grabbing your legs, basically, your front ones, just your front ones, and then, with my second, my boost, I'm moving up to here, and dragging you up with me. Or, I guess up to here.
JACK: Under the Radar tilts precipitously as you pull it.
AUSTIN: I guess, wherever, like, there, I guess, Dre, if you want to slide Radar up to be adjacent ish?
DRE: Sure.
AUSTIN: Yeah, I guess that's probably the truth, right? Or, we can get up one more. But maybe we can't, because of the way sizes are.
DRE and JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: But it doesn't have to be all the way in, right?
AUSTIN: You — no, no, no. I think we're good. We're good, I think we're good. Are we good, Dre?
DRE: Yeah, you're good.
AUSTIN: Okay.
DRE: Yeah, you don't have to be all in there.
AUSTIN: And then, you can get to there. Right, Keith?
KEITH: Uh, yeah, I can get to, up here.
AUSTIN: Hell yeah. Oh, right, you can climb on walls. Anyway, that's my whole — uh, that's move, move. Uh... I should, I should, uh, what's a thing I can do with a half?
DRE: I don't know. You tell me!
JACK: You can fire a weapon, right?
KEITH: You could fire your energy rifle.
JACK: Yeah, a skirmish.
AUSTIN: I'm not close enough to hit anything, are you kidding me?
DRE: [laughing]
JACK: You could...
AUSTIN: I'm talking about things I could do that are nice for my friends, that's where I'm at here. Mech actions, let's see... uh, I could bolster somebody. Does anybody want to be bolstered?
KEITH: Me.
AUSTIN: Okay, yeah. I'll — can I bolster from that far away? Let's see.
DRE: What's your sensors?
AUSTIN: Don't ask me for things like that.
DRE: Well, that's what determines it. [laughing]
JACK: [laughing]
AUSTIN: Well, fuck, there's a 5, so, no, I cannot bolster you, Keith.
KEITH: It's okay.
AUSTIN: Uh, I could have bolstered you before we moved, maybe?
KEITH: Nah, it's fine.
DRE: Sure, we can hand wave it.
AUSTIN: No, I can hand wave it. Let's bolster you. Let's get you all bolstered up.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
AUSTIN: Uh, which just means that you —
KEITH: I might be invisible, but I also still am, uh, whatever it's called when that thing virused me.
AUSTIN: Yeah, exactly. You get plus-2, uh, accuracy on your next skill check or save between now and the end of your turn. So, boom.
KEITH: Okay.
AUSTIN: All right.
DRE: Okay. Man. Uh, Pallion Storm is swooping down overhead. And as, as she flies over, you can just see that there is a, just a huge bomber bay that opens up.
JACK: Oh, no! [chuckling]
DRE: Down below.
AUSTIN: Oh, I hate it. And we're really all gathered up.
DRE: Uh-huh!
KEITH: How do, how do reactions work, by the way?
DRE: Uh... you can — what do you mean?
KEITH: I've never, I've never had to do a reaction move, is it based on sensors?
DRE: Yeah... yes you have. You braced. You braced.
KEITH: I did brace, you're right.
DRE: Yeah, that's a reaction move.
KEITH: Okay.
DRE: Uh, da-da-da-da...Okay. All three of you take 4, because this is burst 5.
AUSTIN: Jesus Christ.
JACK: It's not armor piercing though, right?
SYLVIA: Okay, time to...
DRE: No, it is not armor piercing.
SYLVIA: Time to do that structure damage roll.
AUSTIN: Oh, no. Wait, how many did you say? 4, or 5? 5? 
DRE: 4.
JACK: 4.
AUSTIN: 4, so I take 3. And that means —
SYLVIA: Oh, I got the thing that, uh, did Keith get that, or Jack...
JACK: Oh yeah. I think I got this one. I like the big destroy button.
SYLVIA: Also, when I get dropped to zero, does excess damage from the hit carry over to —
DRE: It rolls over. Yep.
SYLVIA: So, wait, how much total was that then again? Because I had 1 HP.
DRE: 4. So, 3 more. Yeah.
SYLVIA: So I'm at 11. Uh... all weapons on one mount of my choice are destroyed. [chuckles]
DRE: Hey, you've got a lot of mounts, though.
AUSTIN: This thing is just dropping bombs.
SYLVIA: Yeah. Uh... I think it's going to be my flex weapon mount, and be my RPG launcher.
DRE: Sure. I'll cross that off for you.
SYLVIA: Uh, because, yeah... otherwise, I would lose both my Sharanga missiles and my fuel rod gun, because they're both main weapons. And then the other one I find more useful, so, [chuckling] I'm holding onto it.
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: The thing these big bird fucking jet mechs remind me of are the AdArm Wakes, [spelling] W-A-K-E, which I don't — there's a real, there's a very specific image that I have, but I think it was in the Rapid Evening chat —
DRE: Uh-huh.
AUSTIN: And that chat got delete the at some point by mistake, instead of just getting archived. So I'm not going to be able to find it, which is sad.
DRE: Yeah. Uh... okay. Teasel, it is your move.
KEITH: All right.
AUSTIN: Boom.
DRE: Yeah. Okay.
JACK: Okay!
AUSTIN: Love it.
DRE: Yeah.
KEITH: Can I — oh, it's gone.
DRE: What's gone?
KEITH: I was going to shoot the big one out of spite.
AUSTIN: No, it's over here.
DRE: Oh, you can. No, it's right here.
KEITH: Where is it? Where is it?
AUSTIN: Right here.
KEITH: I'm totally not seeing it.
AUSTIN: Southeast.
KEITH: Oh, that's the big one?
AUSTIN: That's, that's the new big one. I mean, that’s size… 
DRE: That's the new big one.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
DRE: I mean, it's, it's size 1, but —
KEITH: Right. It's bigger than the other ones, which I think are size halfs.
JACK: It's a tiny baby.
KEITH: Uh, because I'm hidden, I can knock it down, I can knock it out of the sky.
AUSTIN: Oh, that's very fun, you should just do it.
JACK: Oh, ho ho!
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: It has to pass — that's why I want to do it, it's not just out of spite. I just want to, it's funny if I can knock it out of the sky.
DRE: Sure.
AUSTIN: No, like that's literally, that should give us — if we knock it out of the sky, it has to take off again and shit, that's good cover for us to escape, you know?
DRE: Mm-hm.
KEITH: Yeah, okay. So, uh, we never went into this, just because it never came up, but I do have personalizations which, uh —
JACK: [laughing]
KEITH: Which gives me a plus-1 accuracy if my personalization makes sense. And, because I rent this thing out to shoot clay pigeons, I'm going to say that my personalization specifically helps with shooting things that are airborne.
JACK: Yes!
AUSTIN: That's fun.
DRE: Nice.
AUSTIN: That rules.
KEITH: So that's plus-1 there. I also have, uh, core siphon, which gives me the plus-1 on the first attack of my turn, and then plus-1 difficulty on further attacks, but there are no further attacks. And then also I have crack shot, which is another one, and accurate, which is another one.
AUSTIN: [chuckling] Plus-4 accuracy.
KEITH: Yes, yep. And, then if it passes, it has to pass a HUL save or it becomes slowed, impaired, or unable to take reactions until the end of the turn. And I'm just extrapolating out that if something is impaired in the sky, it falls out of the sky?
DRE: Uh, no.
KEITH: Aw.
AUSTIN: You said it was immobilized, also?
DRE: Yeah.
AUSTIN: You said it was slowed, impaired, and what?
DRE: Unable to take reactions.
KEITH: Oh, wait, no, what is the thing... no, no, no.
AUSTIN: Yeah.
KEITH: No, there's something else. It's, uh...
AUSTIN: I think you're still hitting its engine and slowing it.
KEITH: There's something I can do to make something reel. I remember that I can make something reel, but I don't remember how I do that.
AUSTIN: Oh, reel as in like, you've knocked it back, sending it reeling.
SYLVIA: [laughing]
KEITH: Yeah, I just don't remember… 
AUSTIN: That's this. It's the first attack roll of any type you make sends your target reeling on a hit. Your target must succeed on a HUL save —
KEITH: Oh, there we go.
AUSTIN: Or become slowed, impaired, and unable to take reactions.
KEITH: Right, I just was reading the second half. So it does reel.
AUSTIN: Yeah, that's fun.
KEITH: So whether that means it falls out of the sky or not, I roll that.
AUSTIN: How is this possible?
JACK: Mmm!
KEITH: I hate this game.
JACK: Keith, I'm so sorry.
KEITH: This game doesn't like me —
AUSTIN: Oh, wait, wait, wait. What's its evasion, what's its evasion? You targeted yourself, for some reason. But also, you can reroll.
KEITH: Oh, okay. I'll just reroll it, I'll just reroll it. I thought I targeted it, but I must've messed it up. Okay, roll that, and then redo, I think it was, 4, plus-3.
DRE: Plus-4.
AUSTIN: That is a lower roll. No, it's a higher roll, but it still —
DRE: It's higher.
AUSTIN: But it's still a miss. That's a 7. 7 plus 4 plus 2 is 13.
JACK: Ugh...
DRE: Also, Keith, no matter what you would have rolled, it would have missed, because it has an ability where the first thing it gets to dodge.
AUSTIN: Ha-ha! Oh, okay. Well, at least you didn't crit and that happened. Because if you had crit, and then it dodged, [chuckling] using that, that would have sucked.
KEITH: [sighs]
AUSTIN: Oh, buddy. Let's get out of here.
DRE: Yeah. So, yeah, I think as you all follow the river, the canyon kind of like closes in over you, and you're basically in like an underground river tunnel —
AUSTIN: Oh, okay. Safe from bombs.
DRE: Which is how I imagine that you are, yeah, you are dodging them, uh, you know, maybe, on the way in, Martilla like, shoots a charge, and like, causes like a blockage of rubble so that they can't chase after you easily.
JACK: Yeah.
DRE: Or you know what, no. Maybe like, I imagine, the... the actual version of this is like, all that missile swarm that Pallion launched at you started a landslide.
JACK: Oh yeah.
AUSTIN: Oh, that's fun.
DRE: That, that filled in the canyon behind you as you —
AUSTIN: Yeah, I love that.
DRE: As you escaped.
KEITH: The first choice is very, like, uh, like N64 Star Wars game —
AUSTIN: [laughing] Uh-huh.
KEITH: Where like an AT-AT, you know, fires at something to cause a landslide to block off the...
DRE: [laughing]
KEITH: I saw that, in my mind, in N64 graphics.
AUSTIN: For sure. For sure.
DRE: Yeah. So you're moving towards —
AUSTIN: They should make a fucking Partizan N64 game, IMO.
DRE: Man, they should. You're moving towards the extraction zone —
KEITH: They making N64 games these days?
AUSTIN: Yeah, they're making, they're real hot right now.
DRE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, so you're moving towards, I shouldn't say the extraction zone, the rendezvous zone. And as you're, as you come out of the tunnel, you're basically coming out of a giant mountain. Uh, and there's a, a path kind of leading up. But based around this mountain are, it, it's the people of Harborview.
SYLVIA: Hell yeah.
DRE: And they've kind of set up a temporary, like, I don't know, I don't want to — I don't know if, tent village isn't the right word. But like, yeah, I mean, it's basically like, what does it look like when a whole town-worth of people have to grab the things they can at hand, and then just like, are sitting and waiting somewhere?
AUSTIN: God, yeah.
DRE: Right? Uh... and, I think, uh, so, as you get there — we can talk about mechanically what happens next. But, I want to get us close to... so, the sun is starting to set. I mean, this has basically been like, you've been fighting all day, more or less. And, as you all pull up and I think probably get out of your mechs that are in various states of like, disrepair, on fire, smoking — uh... Kaliope comes running out into the crowd, uh, seeking you all out, uh, and I think comes up to... hm. Which one of you would she come up to? I think, probably, uh, probably Martilla. And I think she says:
DRE (as KALIOPE): Well, in the end, you get what you want. They're not coming.
JACK (as MARTILLA): Millennium Break?
DRE (as KALIOPE): They're not coming.
JACK: Like a little, like a little, “yeah, that sounds like them,” but she doesn't say anything.
DRE (as KALIOPE): They couldn't. They, they were coming, but they aren't, anymore.
AUSTIN (as NARMINE): Well, what’s this mean for us?
DRE: Uh, I think when you say that, uh, Deanthe and the three Strand kind of step into the conversation. And Deanthe says —
DRE (as DEANTHE): Now we get to see what a Strand can do.
[“Permanent Peace” by Jack de Quidt plays]