Pusher Media Club: Spirited Away
Transcriber: vesta #5711


ALI: Hi everybody! Welcome to another episode of the Pusher Media Club. This week we’re going to be talking about Spirited Away. I’m joined by Keith J Carberry.


KEITH: Hi, My name is Keith J Carberry, you can find me on Twitter @KeithJCarberry


ALI: Andrew Lee Swan.


DRE: Hey! You know what, if you’re listening to this, you know the deal.


ALI: Right [chuckles].


KEITH: I’ll take Dre’s! You can find me on Youtube-


DRE: Mhm.


KEITH: youtube.com/RunButton. Thank you Dre.


ALI: And Arthur Martinez-Tebbel.


ART: Hey you can find Keith, more of Keith at contentburger.biz.


KEITH: Thank you. Thank you for that.


ALI: Ooh! This is true. Yeah, that is true.


KEITH: We just finished Shenmue 2, so we’re going to do Shenmue 3 soon.


ALI: Wow!


KEITH: I’m legitimately very excited for that.


ALI: [chuckles] I don’t know anything about Shenmue 3. I’m guessing what I’ll learn if I watch your Let’s Plays.


ART: Is that the last Shenmue, or is there more Shenmue?


ALI: It’s the most recent, right?


KEITH: It’s the last and most recent- yeah, it came out in 2019.


DRE: Weren’t they trying to raise money for a Shenmue 4?


KEITH: Wow I sure they hope they are, and I hope that it succeeds. [ALI chuckles] I figure they should let Yu Suzuki make as many of those stupid games as he wants. He is a visionary at- but the only problem is his vision is stupid. He has a very stupid-

DRE: Yu Suzuki last year, says he firmly believes a Shenmue 4 will happen.


ALI: Wow!


KEITH: His over- his overarching vision for Shenmue has always been a ten-part saga? [ALI laughs]


DRE: Mhm.


KEITH: That has been true since Shenmue 1, which was one of the highest selling games on the Dreamcast, sold almost 2 million copies, and still didn’t make back even close to what they spent on it. To that- I read very recently on one of the last episodes that in order for Shenmue to have made money, every single person that bought a Dreamcast would’ve also had to buy Shenmue. 


ALI: And they should’ve.


ART: Well sorry for letting Sega down, [ALI laughs] I own a Dreamcast and didn’t buy it.


KEITH: Damn, damn. I also didn’t.


ART: I didn’t mean to [KEITH: Yeah.] hurt Yu Suzuki like that.


KEITH: Shenmue, Shenmue 1 costs so much money that there is a sort of legitimate idea out there that Shenmue’s development cost was like, the final nail in the Sega coffin? [ALI snorts]


ART: Mmmm.


DRE: Yeah? I mean that kinda happened with like Square and Spirits Within, right? I know it didn’t like kill them, but like wasn’t that the story, was that all the money they spent on Spirits Within almost ruined them as a company?


KEITH: Yeah. Yeah, there’s a lot of stories about like, well the downfall of Sega, or- and Square, I guess. Wait, was it- whose downfall was this game? I don’t know if I’ve heard this story actually.


DRE: Wait, what?


ART: Wasn’t Spirits Within that movie?


DRE: Yeah! It was the movie-


KEITH: Oh the movie.


DRE: Spirits Within was the Final Fantasy movie they made.


KEITH: Final Fantasy movie, ohhhh-


ALI: Yeeeah. Ohh, that’s right.
DRE: And it like, the negative- I think the story was that the negative impact that it had on the company almost like ruined the Square Enix merger. [ALI chuckles]


ART: It was a dreadful movie, and it looked terrible.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: Funny enough, Shenmue had a movie that was all of the cutscenes from the game spliced into a movie, and people kind of liked it. [ALI laughs]


ART: A Shen-movie if you will.


KEITH: A Shen-movie, yeah. [ALI squeals and laughs ] A family Shen-movie. But yeah, not enough to save it cause like, hey look, we’ll spend a butt load of money to make Shenmue, and then we’ll make nine more Shenmues to recoup that cost, and then they said okay, and then Sega folded.


DRE: Mmm.


KEITH: As a console manufacturer, anyway.


DRE: Hey Keith, is there a part in Shenmue where you drive a car up to an abandoned thing in the woods, and then walk through a tunnel to mystical portal to a spirit realm?


ALI: Mmm, great question.


ART: Seamless, Dre.


KEITH: No, [DRE: Thank you] but I would love to hear about something that did do that.


ALI: [chuckles] So we’re all here to talk about Spirited Away tonight. What’d you all think? How are you feeling?


DRE: Am I the only person who had not seen this movie before now?


KEITH: Ooh, I think so.


ALI: Maybe.


ART: Here’s what happened to me while watching that movie. I went into that movie thinking, I’ve seen this movie before. [DRE laughs] And I hadn’t? And I’m sort of wondering what went on there. What movie did I see that I mistook it for, what did I like, I don’t know, I thought I’d seen this movie, and in the course of watching it, there’s definitely like scenes I’d seen before, but I had not seen it all together.


KEITH: Did you maybe see Howl’s Moving Castle? That’s the other big, America-release Ghibli movie.


ART: I don’t know, I’d have to- if I- they’re all on HBO Max, I should go watch all of them [ALI: Yeah!] and figure out- it’s also possible like I took a lot of, Asian literature classes in college? It’s possible I’ve just seen like two or three scenes?


ALI: Oh sure.


KEITH: Yeah, yeah.


ART: And my brain’s like, seen that movie. And-


DRE: Mhm, mhm.


KEITH: Okay, so I guess there’s two people that hadn’t seen it, and I’m curious what you all thought, for sure.


ART: Very confusing movie.


DRE: I loved it.
KEITH: So it was confusing, Art?


ART: Very confusing if you go in thinking you’ve seen it [KEITH: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.] [ALI laughs] and a scene that you’ve never seen before happens? But like I don’t know that that’s really about the production?


ALI: Mmm. Fair.


KEITH: No. Yeah this- I would say this is a movie that’s famous for being good? Which is not- not a lot of the stuff we’ve done is famous like just kind of for being good. [ALI chuckles] Right? I mean- actually [ALI: That’s- I mean it’s critically acclaimed.] There Will Be Blood is also for being good.


ALI: Oh sure, yeah.


ART: What else have we done for these? 


DRE: Sneakers, which I guess that’s, that’s more of like a cult classic right? 


ART: Yeah.


ALI: We did Sneakers, we did Fargo, we did-


ART: Fargo, famous for being good.


KEITH: Yeah, Fargo’s famous for being good.


ALI: Oh, yeah. [chuckles]


KEITH: Oh we did that- oh we did the ramen movie!


ALI: Oh, Tampopo. That was also-


DRE: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.


KEITH: That was great. What else did we watch that-?


DRE: Yeah I guess that’s a Criterion classic, so that is somewhat famous for being good.


ALI: Sure, yeah it’s good.


KEITH: But it’s less famous?


ALI: Yeah. Sure. [chuckles]


KEITH: Spirited Away is one of the movies that has like, catapulted itself into Disney canon, because Disney’s very sneaky as a company, and they can do stuff like that?


DRE: Yeah, I know what you-


ART: Well they also paid to make some of it, so. 


KEITH: I think they just paid for the Western distribution rights.


ALI: Mmm.


ART: Mm that’s money that they didn’t have. [ALI chuckles] I- I was, I found this in the Wikipedia page, this is in a deep dive for me. In 2017, the New York Times called this the best movie of the 21st century?


ALI: Ohhh?


KEITH: Obviously.


ART: Obviously as of 2017 they changed their mind in the last four years. [ALI laughs]


KEITH: I don’t know.


ART: They might be like, now it’s Trolls 2.


KEITH: It’s Hack now.


ART: Love those McElroys.


ALI: Mhm. Um, [laughs] so we’ve established that this movie is good.


KEITH: It’s good, it’s really good.


ALI: It is a good movie! I- I submitted this for this sort of Pusher situation, because as I was doing like Sangfielle buildup, this was like a movie that I saw that like made me okay with playing Heart? [chuckles] Cause there was like a way to do things that were like gross, or like you know, decayed, or like magical, or cursey that wasn’t like, brooding in that way, right?


KEITH: Right. That makes sense. Yeah, totally. [ALI chuckles] Cause it is like a person who’s constantly surrounded by- by something that we agree with Chihiro, that stuff- all the stuff is weird to us too, [ALI: Mhm.] and kind of gross.


ART: Mhm.


KEITH: And even stuff that’s gross in that world is like, even grosser? Like, no one likes the, like the garbage spirit? [ALI: Mhm] But it is particularly- like, if you say oh no, a garbage spirit, it’s coming, it’s gonna stink, that sucks, I would go, a what? There’s spirits? [ALI and DRE chuckle]


ALI and ART: Mhm!


ALI: But for them it’s just like, oh, there’s a spirit coming through and he’s a smelly guy. [laughs]


[Dog barking in the background]


KEITH: That’s my- 


ART: She’s coming through- is she coming through on the- [dog barks] yep, there it is. [ALI laughing]


KEITH: Did you check to make sure that he’s not a very old river spirit?


ALI: Mmm.


KEITH: Do we have like a pirate skeleton for a face?


DRE: Mhm. Just a bunch of garbage in there!


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: I love it.


ART: Mhm.


KEITH: Pollution. It means something.


DRE: Should we do like a plot summary?


ALI: Sure! Go ahead.


ART: Good luck.


KEITH: [laughs] I feel like there’s a very clear plot!


ART: Yeah! It’s a very clear plot, but like, the- it has a meandering second act.


KEITH: It has- it has, [DRE: That’s fair.] the second act is vignettes.


ART: Mhm.


KEITH: Alright Dre, it was your idea. [ALI giggles] Go for it! 


DRE: Yeah okay. [ART laughs] I’ll take the first part, and then we can all take turns.


ALI: Sure.


KEITH: Art can do the meandering second act.


DRE: Yeah, so. The movie opens with our protagonist, Chihiro? Is that how you pronounce it?


ALI: Mhm!


DRE: She is in the back of the car, her parents, her mom and her dad are driving to their new town, they are moving. She is not stoked about it. She is in fact, very unhappy about it.


KEITH: They are also not stoked about it, but they don’t let her not be stoked about it? Which is a touchstone I really love? [ALI chuckles]


DRE: Yeah absolutely. I didn’t take a lot of notes during this movie, but the first note I took was, “her parents are the worst people in the world”?


ALI: Oh! [chuckles]


KEITH: They do suck. They suck.


DRE: They suck a lot. Anyway, so the dad sees their house at the top of a hill, and is like well, the mom’s like, “we should probably turn around to go on the street where the cars go”, and he’s like “no I’m gonna drive through the woods, because I drive an Audi and I have a four wheel drive.” [ALI chuckles]


ART: Yeah, a bonkers decision when you don’t know the area.


DRE: Uh huh!


KEITH: Oh, and then he drives like an absolute maniac too.


DRE: Yes!


KEITH: Like, like they show him speeding through these woods on this narrow dirt path like no one ever would, ever, who isn’t- [DRE: Ever.] yeah. I mean- no okay, never mind, keep going.


DRE: He’s driving like he’s playing Forza.


ART: Mm.


ALI: Sure.


DRE: Forza Horizon, I guess-


KEITH: Right, oh, yeah yeah yeah. [ART: Yeah.] He is driving like in Forza Horizon, yeah.


DRE: So at the end of this road, he has to stop because he is about to run over like a little statue. And they come across a red gate that the dad-


KEITH: You say run over- that thing would’ve crushed that car. They would’ve like-


DRE: Oh yeah, totally, just run into is a better way- yeah that would’ve fucked up his Audi for- hey! If you look at the Spirited Away wiki, there is a specific page for that car. [ALI and KEITH chuckle] It’s a 1996 Audi A4 Quattro.


ALI: Hell yeah!


KEITH: Huh, doing pretty nice at this new fancy suburbs job.


DRE: Mhm, yeah. So the dad is like, looks around, and says like “oh we should walk in here, we should walk through this weird tunnel.” And the mom’s like “yeah no that sounds cool, let’s do that.” And the kid’s like “hey, I’ve seen a movie ever, this sounds creepy, I don’t want to do this.” And they basically tell her to shut up and wait in the car. And she’s still scared, so she’s like I guess I will follow my parents.


KEITH: Yeah rather be scared with my parents than without them.


ALI: Sure.


DRE: Yeah, totally. I think this is when-


ART: Great parenting, b-t-dubbs.


DRE: Yeah, excellent parenting. Hey, professional opinion, bad parenting. So they get to the other side, they walk through what appears to be like an abandoned train station, they walk through the other side, which I think they exit out of like a, that’s where the clocktower first shows up right?


ALI: Mhm.


KEITH: Yeah, yeah.


DRE: And the dad says like “oh this must be one of those abandoned theme parks I saw about on the TV!” [ALI chuckles] “They opened a ton of these in the 90s and then the economy crashed, so now there’s just these abandoned theme parks everywhere!”


ART: Would love- no offense, true, if Japan is [KEITH: I think that is true?] covered in abandoned theme parks?


DRE: Yeah, that are just in the middle of the woods that you could easily walk into? They-


KEITH: Maybe not, that’s probably not the kind of location they normally were, but I do think that it’s true that there were, there were a lot of abandoned roadside shit. Yeah.


DRE: Yeah, yeah. They keep exploring, they find like what is basically like a main street that’s full of restaurants. The mom and dad are- say they are starving, and they find a restaurant that is empty, but is full of food. And they start to eat the food. Chihiro again, having ever seen a movie, TV show, [ALI chuckles] or read a book ever in her life is like “hey, we- that’s bad, we shouldn’t do that.”


KEITH: And who knows about stealing.


DRE: Yeah, she’s like “that’s bad, you shouldn’t do that.”


KEITH: They sort of wave it away like, “ah, we’ll pay when they- when someone shows up” like, [ALI chuckles] I’ve got credit cards, I’ve got money. I’ve got this-


DRE: Yeah, the dad specifically says, “don’t be scared, daddy’s here, he’s got credit cards and cash.”


ALI: Oooh!


KEITH: While picking up a blob of the most disgusting looking thing I’ve ever seen.


DRE: Yes, absolutely.


KEITH: I don’t know what those blobs are. A lot of that food looks delicious, but I have never forgotten the look of those blobs. [ALI chuckles]


DRE: Yeah. 


ART: But just like generally, unquestioning of like, well this place that we think is abandoned has just a giant pile of food and no people.


ALI: Mhm.


DRE and KEITH: Right.


ART: It’s not even seen a movie, it’s, this is Hansel and Gretel territory right? [ALI and DRE chuckle]


KEITH: It’s steaming hot food, they’re eating it- they immediately go from 0 to 60 in terms of eating this food.


DRE: Yes, they are literally inhaling food. 


ALI: Yeah, this is like enchantment territory.


KEITH: Meanwhile, sort of like, offhand dialogue of like, “what even is this?” stuffing it in their faces [chuckles].


DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: Not cautious.


DRE: No, not cautious whatsoever.


KEITH: To put a pin in it, not cautious.


DRE: And yeah, Chihiro like, then is like, well this, I’m not gonna eat this food. And I don’t wanna watch you eat this food, and kind of like wanders around. And then comes back to grab her parents and be like, let’s leave, and her parents have turned into pigs!


ALI: Woah.


KEITH: And it takes a really lo- it takes a full stare from the pig for her to realize that that-


DRE: Yeah. [ALI chuckles]


KEITH: I could tell from behind-


DRE: Very obviously are pigs from behind- yeah [laughs]


DRE: I feel like that’s a good beat for me to hand it off. That’s like, that’s the first time in the movie where it’s like, alright, it’s magic time.


ALI: Sure, yeah. From here she runs into Haku, who seems to be familiar with the situation going on, gives her some you know important advice in terms of like, “don’t eat that, come here, hold your breath over this bridge”, yada yada yada.


DRE: Also he's a cool ninja.


KEITH: There is all of a sudden a lot of rules that need to be followed or you will like die or disappear or be turned into a pig.


ALI: Uh huh. Yeah yeah yeah.


KEITH: I also- I notice it every time it comes up in any movie or anything, that guy is Dustil Onasi from Knights of the Old Republic, [ALI squeals in delight] Carth Onasi’s son.


DRE: Ohhh, okay!


KEITH: I cannot help but notice him in everything he’s in, you might know him as Max Goof from Goofy Movie?


DRE: Ohhh! Yeah! [ALI chuckles] Mmkay, that’s fun!


ALI: Well, Carth Onasi proceeds to give her the-


KEITH: Dustil, Dustil Onasi please.


ALI: Oh sorry, sorry my bad.


ART: You’re gonna get thrown off that Star Wars podcast [ALI and KEITH laugh] by mixing up the Onasi family.


ALI: [chuckling] He gives her to advice to go to like a specific place in the village to get a job. And like, this person is gonna say no, just keep insisting to do this, cause it’ll help you stay here and then it’ll eventually help you get out.


KEITH: This is a fun difference- I torrented this movie, and something I love about torrenting movies, is that it lets you- when you have a sub and a dub, it lets you put on the dub, but then put on the subtitles? [DRE: Mhm.] So you can see the differences in the performed English and the written English?


ALI: Oh, that’s annoying.


KEITH: Oh no I love it, it’s really fun. I mean, I see also why it would be annoying, but, there was a few interesting differences. One of them was that, in this one in the dub, Haku tells her like, you gotta ask for a job, and Kamaji the boiler man that you’re going to ask a job from, he’s gonna try and trick you to make you leave, but stay there and insist to get a job. And in the sub, he tells her that Kamaji’s gonna help her, she has to insist for a job, he might ask her to leave and the witch, Yubaba, will try to trick her and like to not like, fall for Yubaba’s tricks. It’s just like a weird thing cause it’s true that the boiler man doesn’t ever try to trick her. I don’t know, just an interesting thing that the dub like changed who might try to trick her from the witch to the helpful guy who’s nothing but helpful?


ART: And Yubaba’s nothing but tricks.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: Right, she’s all tricks.


DRE: Mhm, it’s all true.


KEITH: Soup to nuts. [ALI cackles]


DRE: Tricks to trucks, soup to nuts.


KEITH: Tricks to trucks, soup to nuts. Tell them the tricks.


ALI: [chuckles] So yeah, she goes to the boiler guy, asks for a job. He says no a bunch of times-


DRE: That man as a lot of arms.


ALI: Yeah!


DRE: And they’re long!


ALI: They’re long as well!


KEITH: Yeah, this is Spider Robotnik.


ALI: True. [KEITH laughs] True. True.


DRE: It is. It is though.


KEITH: It’s Spider Robotnik, yeah.


DRE: Uh huh [chuckles].


ALI: In the exchange she ends up indeed going to Yubaba to ask for a job. And what ends up happening is she signs a contract of employment, but part of that is that her name gets taken away. And Chihiro becomes Sen. Does anyone else wanna [chuckles] pick it up from here?


ART: I guess this is the part that I was- oh yeah.
DRE: Quick clarification-


DRE: Is this Sen with an ‘e’, right? It’s not like S-I-N, it’s S-E-N?


ALI: It’s S-E-N.


KEITH: Correct.


ART: Yeah.


KEITH: I think this is sort of like a pun about the characters used to write her name that I don’t know, because I don’t know Japanese?


ALI: Mhm.


KEITH: You can see her-


ART: Yeah they take three of the characters away [KEITH: Right, yeah.] And the one that’s left, pronounced on its own, is Sen.


DRE: Ahhh, okay.


ART: Because that’s how combinations of characters work in Japanese, it’s- I don’t know more than that, but I know that. 


KEITH: And I don’t- I also don’t know what the- I’ve never checked what those might mean, if Sen means something, if it’s actually a pun.[1] But it is just like, taking away a bit of the name. Art, you actually did seem like you didn’t want to do this section, so you can not do it. I don’t mind.


ART: I mean, I- [exhales] I can do it, what-


KEITH: Mmkay.


ART: Then just a bunch of stuff happens, you know? [KEITH laughs]


ALI: Sure.


DRE: Nailed it.


ART: She works there now. She’s- her job is cleaning up the bathhouse. And we just get like, sort of a running set of bathhouse customers, I don’t remember the exact order, but we get you know, we get the- she’s- they’re cleaning the giant tub, it’s like a trick like, and they’re not supposed to have a soap token? But then they get a soap token, and while they’re cleaning this giant tub with their soap, the stink demon comes, or was this- a stink spirit. Stink spirit, they don't use demon. [ALI chuckles] Honestly rude of me to say.


DRE: Mhm.


KEITH: The gall.


ART: Yeah. And in the process of cleaning this just very gross creature- viscerally gross on the screen, the waves of sludge coming off of this spirit, are capable of pushing- pushing her back, you know? [ALI chuckles] But they discover that it’s not a stink spirit, it’s some sort of, what do we call it? A pirate face-


KEITH: A river spirit.


DRE: It was a river spirit.


KEITH: Oh yeah. Yeah.


ALI: A pirate-faced spirit.


KEITH: A horrible pirate-faced skeleton dragon.


ART: Yeah, but that was very rich. And so it becomes very profitable for Yubaba, and it’s like a good moment for Sen. And I think during this-


KEITH: They’re watching her like, hoping for her to fail, and she kind of just lucked into doing the right stuff a lot? 


ART: Right. [DRE: Mhm.] And somewhere in this vignette I think is where she lets in the, the No-Face spirit?


DRE: Yes. Yeah. No-Face actually is the- is, who helps her get like the bathing tokens.


ART: Yeah, yeah that’s right. The No-Face is invited, and is helping her, and like slowly becomes a larger problem as like the other things are going on. There’s some stuff with Haku, Haku like immediately is cold to Sen after she signs the contract with them like they, she- Haku takes Sen to visit her parents, like you have to memorize these pigs. And she- she tries to memorize the pigs.


KEITH: Right, one of the rules of like, if she doesn't have a job, they can turn her into a pig. If she doesn’t eat some of their food, she’s gonna disappear. [ART: Uh huh.] If she doesn’t have her clothes or remember her name and she won’t be able to get home. And if she doesn’t remember her parents, she won’t be able to get home.


ART: Right. Very clever. Good foresight by Haku there.


ALI: It’s really like a stacked- it’s a very complicated curse situation, because there are a lot of guidelines there.


ART: It’s a very complicated curse situation- that’s probably- the movie lost Jess I think, is that like, the movie keeps just like, adding more stuff.


DRE: Mhm.


ART: Without like super explaining it?


ALI: Oh sure.


ART: And that was like the moment where Jess is like what’s, what’s happening in this movie?


DRE: Yeah. I feel like the first time that happened for me was when- so Haku- so it’s explained that Haku is like the, is Yubaba’s apprentice. And also at some point, she sees him, oh you can turn into a dragon. So she sees him in his dragon form coming back, and he’s like being attacked by like all of these like- it’s like curse paper, right?


ALI and ART: Mhm.


DRE: She thinks they’re birds, but they’re like white pieces of paper.


KEITH: Yeah.


DRE: That are like attacking him, and like killing, and so she goes upstairs to try and check on him, and he like crashes into Yubaba’s room. And she goes upstairs and runs into Haku, Yubaba’s giant baby, [KEITH laughs] and like the three ogre-head guys? [ALI: Uh huh.] And then suddenly, one of the papers like just turns into a witch and is like, oh I’m Zeniba, I’m her sister.


KEITH: Totally identical.


DRE: Yeah, and we’ve got beef, so now I’m gonna turn this baby into a mouse. 


ALI: [chuckles] Yeah, one of the paper birds, or like sort of figures, that sort of snuck in with her- [DRE: Yeah, yeah.] Cause it was attached to her back. And you know, you know [KEITH: They were her conduit.] a second stage villain, you know? [laughs] But yeah, this is Yubaba’s twin sister.


DRE: Mhm.


ALI: They have beef. They don’t get along. We also learn that Haku stole something from the twin sister whose name is Zenibaba- or Zeni- Zeniba?


ART: Zeniba, yeah.


DRE: Yeah, Zeniba.


ALI: Zeniba, okay.


DRE: Sorry I was like, I just realized I was mixing letters up between Zeniba and Yubaba.


ALI: But yeah, so-


KEITH: I can say this is totally off topic, but, I gotta say before we move past it, cause we skipped over it earlier, everyone’s just gotta love the soot spirits. They are the best.


ALI: Oh sure. [chuckles]


ART: Mmm. Uh huh.


KEITH: Very early high moment, the little spider soot creatures that [DRE: Oh yeah yeah yeah.] are animated to do- to do like the labour of picking up coal and throwing it into the furnace to heat all the baths in the bath house? And they’re just very cute little chittering things that immediately take a liking to- oh my god, I forgot her name. How did I forget her name. It’s part of the plot.


ALI: Sen.


KEITH: Sen, sure.


ALI: Chihiro.


KEITH: Chihiro. Chihiro, right.


ALI: Yeah, the early- I can see why they’ve become sort of an iconic thing from this movie. You can find them on t-shirts and- yeah.


KEITH: Yeah they are this movie’s- they are this movie’s little head-rotatey guys from Princess Mononoke?


ALI: Oh, sure, sure! [laughs]


KEITH: That was the analogue for another Ghibli movie?


ALI: Yeah. The- the very early gag with them of her like, helping one of them move the thing-


KEITH: [laughs] Yes!


ALI: -because it falls, and then all of them at that point are like! Oh, but it fell on me too, help me! [DRE laughs] It’s really really good. [chuckles] But yeah, so I guess at the halfway point through this movie here, the stakes become higher, where we see that Yubaba has a rival quote unquote. [DRE: Mhm.] There’s some sort of fight happening here. Haku is like- 


DRE: Yeah and like Haku- yeah, go ahead, sorry.


ALI: Very wounded. Like those scenes when he is that dragon, and he is messed up, there is blood everywhere around him, like just, [DRE: Yeah, uh huh.] too much of it.


DRE: Yeah. Very like Princess Mononoke levels of oh, this animal is fucked up.


ALI: Uh huh.


KEITH: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.


ALI: I just like, the way- cause he would just like, it’s like, it’s just in the background right? Like there isn’t even that much blood on his body, even though you can see that he’s kind of torn up. But like the amount of blood that is just like outside of him, and just like on the floor, was always like, very shocking those scenes. Cause like the movie was like gross, but like Chihiro gets like Tom & Jerry hurt a lot, right? Like [chuckles] she’ll run down [KEITH, ART, DRE laugh] sort of the slope and then like, knock into a wall-


KEITH: Yeah.


DRE: Faceplant into bricks.


ALI: But yeah. 


KEITH: Oh yeah, this is another fun dub and sub difference is that, throughout the whole movie, Lin, her sort of you know, caretaker, you know one of the maids she’s working directly under. Lin in the dub calls her a dope all the time? In the sub, that word is klutz, the English translation calls her a klutz. 


DRE: Ohh.


KEITH: Which I think is a lot more accurate.


DRE: Yeah but I kind of like dope better.


ALI: Yeah [laughs].


KEITH: Yeah… Dope is a better word- I don’t think it’s delivered particularly well.


ALI: Sure. Sure [chuckling], you did not like the performance of calling her a dope.


KEITH: Yeah the performance, yeah Lin- I think Lin is great, [DRE: Lin is great.] I think all of her performance is good. Which is why it stands out everytime she has to call Sen a dope, it kind of doesn’t play for me.


DRE: Yeah. Lin is like your cool older step-sister who is like, [ALI: Yeah.] jokes on you a lot, but you know like loves you and- she can make fun of you, but if anybody else does, she’s gonna beat the shit out them.


ALI: Right. Yeah yeah yeah. She always has your back. Get you an extra dumpling.


KEITH: Well she got a roasted newt because of you.


ALI: Oh yeah.


DRE: That’s true. [ALI giggles]


KEITH: Which is, by the way, they give her this roasted newt, come out, she gives her a roasted newt if she will take, do the legitimately maybe dangerous job of taking Sen up to Yubaba for the first time? And people want that newt so bad, [ALI chuckles] that’s gotta be drugs, right? Like that’s not just a good snack, there’s gotta be some sort of effect that that roasted newt is giving you. You know it’s just a fucking newt, come on.


ALI: I- it just could be rare and really good, I feel like two things here. The- that is such a good early like, set piece in this movie, in terms of like just setting the stage of what this environment is? Of being like, you can have this extremely rare and extremely desirable newt for doing this favour for me. And Lin is like, fuck yeah, I want this newt. [chuckling] Second thing is, I disagree with you on the drugs thing, I think? But given the recent story with Miette, the popular Twitter cat [chuckles], I don’t know if you guys knew this, but-


ART: I do know this story. I’m not a hundred percent convinced I believe it?


ALI: Oh sure [laughs]!


ART: But perhaps I’m just a cynical old man.


ALI: Sure. Popular internet cat recently went to the emergency vet because their owner thought that she was like, having a seizure, dying or whatever. Apparently what happened is that she swallowed an entire lizard and was like [DRE: Ohh.] having a full body high for two days? [KEITH laughs] [laughing] And was completely fine otherwise. So maybe the newt has some sort of psychological effect that we have not heard of.


KEITH: If there is one thing I know about service work, it’s that you will risk your job to get a psychoactive drug.


ALI: [laughs] Yeah, I guess if I was a manager of a fucked up bathhouse, I would be like, can I please suck the leg of that newt. [KEITH laughs] You have to give it to me, [DRE: Yeah no, yeah.] I just want to taste-


KEITH: That was the line really where I was like, this has got to be drugs, right? [ALI laughs] It’s when the manager, or the whoever is like, she’s trying to keep him from seeing that she’s got a human in the elevator, and she’s like dangling the newt in front of him and he’s like,


KEITH (as Manager): I’ll suck its tail! Just its tail! Let me su-


KEITH: Sick, pathetic guy! Cool it! [ALI laughs]


ART: Yeah.


KEITH: It’s so embarrassing. You’re debasing yourself.


DRE: Mhm.


ART: Yeah I like some snacks, but I don’t think I’ve ever gotten there.


KEITH: Yeah. If a friend of mine had like a pretzel like some pretzels, I wouldn’t ever say “let me just get the salt off it!” [ALI laughs] [laughs]


ART: Let me just lick that part at the bottom.


ALI: I- go back to the cat thing.


ART: You know the bottom of the pretzel.


ALI: Cats do that all the time, so maybe if I was like a frog person, maybe my experience in life would be different. [KEITH: Okay, yeah.] And I would be getting in people’s laps all the time being like “let me sniff the burger in your hand please!” [KEITH and DRE laugh] [laughs]


KEITH: Okay! So-


DRE: Let me sniff the burgerrrr!


[ALI laughs]


KEITH: I think something very natural has happened, which is we got totally side-tracked while talking about the middle section of this movie, which Art is correct when he said earlier that it was meandering, because the issue is that nothing that happens is important in this middle section except for what it’s like doing to set other things up? Like it’s a very good section where it’s like, all of it does nothing in the moment- well not nothing in the moment, but it does very little in the moment, it’s not a compelling bit of plot. 


But they’re like fun set pieces that setup dominos that get knocked down later. Like, No-Face gets led in, you see No-Face like watching how people react to the gold that gets left behind from the river spirit. The river spirit was what people thought was the garbage spirit, but he was polluted, and so they pull all of the pollution out of him. And then you know, there’s- she gets that little piece- the emetic thing that makes everybody throw up.


ALI: [chuckles] Yeah!


KEITH: That is like later the solution to Haku’s thing and also No-Face’s thing?


ALI: Uh huh.


KEITH: And so it’s like a lot of stuff that’s like, it feels- I can’t remember when I was watching earlier, but it feels like just little vignette-y set pieces that end up being really effective thematically and like setup-wise for other more important things later? But it’s fun enough to watch, but it almost feels like pointless to describe.


ART: It gives it a kind of dream-like quality in that way.


KEITH: Yeah!


ART: It’s interesting to watch, it’s fun to watch, but describing it afterwards is sort of like pointless? No offense to people out there [ALI chuckles] who describe their dreams to people, but. [KEITH chuckles] But it’s more interesting to you who experienced it, than anyone you’re describing it to.


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: Uh huh.


DRE: Mhm.


ART: Sorry if you had to find out like this. [ALI laughs]


ALI: Yeah, but so where we left off though, the stakes are now higher because Haku is hurt. We know about the stolen golden seal situation.


DRE: Mhm.


ALI: And Chihiro takes it upon herself to-


KEITH: There’s the little slug.


ALI: There’s the little slug, yeah.


KEITH: The black slug.


ALI: Chihiro takes it upon herself to right Haku’s wrong by returning the golden seal, taking the train to Zeniba. Zeniba- [wheezes] I keep wanting to pronounce it with the rhythm of Yubaba? But it just doesn’t translate that way. Taking the train to Zeniba, returning the thing, apologizing. She does this pretty seamlessly? I mean there’s the No-Face situation that’s also happening here, but, that spirit just ends up following her on this train ride and it seems pretty chill.


DRE: Oh. We did kind of leave out the whole thing about No-Face. [ALI chuckles] Like turning into a giant monster that’s like eating people, [ALI: Yeah, yeah.] and is just like a, is just a reflection of like, oh, yeah, he’s in this place where everyone is obsessed with money, and so that turns him from a benign spirit into this big monster.


ALI: Right.


DRE: Yeah.


ALI: That’s obsessed with like eating, and receiving things, I suppose.


KEITH: Yeah, the No-Face thing, I think, No-Face is one of the things about this movie that people are like, really interested in kind of trying to suss out what exactly is going on there? Cause I think there’s a few different common ways that people read it? I don’t- I’m genuinely not sure what I think the No-Face stuff all means? But yeah, and it’s- that is a huge- I think a huge part of this movie in like people’s perception of it, is like sort of about No-Face.


DRE: Yeah. When like, which is- which I knew that going in, and so I was kind of surprised that like, you kind of get the whole arc of No-Face like halfway through the movie, and then he just kinda like, once they go to Zeniba’s place, they’re just like, oh yeah No-Face, now you can stay here. Bye. [ALI chuckles] I was like wait, but, you’re like the thing! [KEITH: Well-] You’re the thing everyone talks about!


ALI: I think it’s just one of those-


KEITH: So they introduce him really early on, he notices her when she’s supposed to be invisible on the bridge [DRE: Oh yeah yeah yeah.] when they first go in. So that’s the first time he shows up. And you can see him like watching her throughout the movie? I think it’s because she- he was turned away and she was let in. And I think that the- there is like, something lonely and jealous about No-Face that Sen thinks that the bathhouse exacerbates in him. [DRE: Mhm.] Which is part of the thing of like, we’ll make him puke up everything he ate so he’s weak, because he eats stuff and gets bigger and stronger and smarter. So he’ll puke up all the stuff he stole, and just take him away from the bathhouse to someone who might actually care for him and look after him. Which is surprise, is the person who you thought was about to be a new villain, the sister, [ALI chuckles] actually she’s so nice. [laughs]


DRE: Yeah. She is the nicest lady.


ALI: Yeah. Very chill experience going there.


KEITH: She’s immediately says like, call me grandma? [ALI chuckles] Like uhhh, okay I can tell that you’re saying that cause you’re really nice, but I have only known you for twelve seconds.


DRE: The whole scene with her, I was waiting for “and now I’m gonna eat ya!” but nope! She’s just, she’s a nice old lady.


ALI: Yeah.


ART: She still looks really sinister, it’s a very- [ALI: Right.] it’s a big look for her. [ALI chuckles]


DRE and KEITH: Oh yeah.


ART: The Ba sisters.


KEITH: Yeah the Ba sisters are very intimidating. I think the first scene where you see her, Yubaba I mean, and she sort of flies over from her desk and gets right up in Sen’s face? And her like dress is ruffled, and like you can see the wind hitting them from the momentum of the rush over there, is like really intimidating, and one of the better shots in the whole movie I think.


ALI: Mhm.


DRE: Yeah.


ALI: But yeah, the scene with Zeniba is pretty seamless. The golden seal is returned. The- Zeniba explains that the black slug that was in the thing was actually the spell that Yubaba put on Haku?


KEITH: Not the spell that Zeniba put on the curse, or on the seal.


ART: Right.


DRE: Yeah, it was the spell Yubaba had put on Haku that allowed her to control him.


ALI: Mhm.


KEITH: Which, which Kamaji first says, oh I bet you broke that spell with pure love, [ALI chuckles] and then Zeniba confirms like, oh yeah, it’s pure- it’s true love that does break that kind of spell. They downplay that a little bit in the sub, or I guess they overplay it a little bit in the dub? They are just sort of like, “hm, love breaks curses” in the sub. They’re like a little bit less, [ALI: Sure.] like “Haku is your true love”.


ALI: Sure. Yeah, I- it’s not like a real romance with them, right? Cause I mean-


KEITH: No, no. It’s not.

ALI: She’s twelve. And he’s like-


KEITH: And he’s a river.


ALI: -fourteen maybe.


ART and DRE: Yeah.


ALI: But-


KEITH: He’s fourteen maybe, but he’s also like thousands and thousands of years old?


ALI: Sure [laughs]


ART: Yeah.


DRE: Right.


ART: None of us can truly love a river, not like we can love people.


KEITH: Yeah. And if you can, the river won’t love you back. [ALI laughs]


ART: Sorry if you had to find out-


KEITH: Yeah. If you were an MTV reality show in the early 2010s about loving- being in a love with the river, sorry,  but you’re not.


ALI: Oh sure. Yeah.


ART: Everything on that show is kayfabe, right?


KEITH: …Yes.


DRE: Wait, what show?


KEITH: Uhhh… yes.


ART: The MTV show where people are like, I’m… dating my car! [ALI chuckles]


DRE: Oh is that like True Life I’m- yeah yeah yeah.


ART: Yeah.


DRE: I don’t- [defeated] I don’t know. I don’t know. 


KEITH: I don’t know. I don’t know.


ALI: Yeah. There’s layers there. But yeah, we’ve completely brushed over this river thing, which is in traveling back to Yubaba’s at this point, from Zeniba’s, Haku shows up, gives her a ride back, which is convenient [chuckles]. It was a one-way train, but Haku’s here now.


KEITH: Right. He was on time because of true love, also.


ALI: Sure. Sure, you know. True. [chuckles] But in that, in the transportation there, Chihiro remembers where she knows Haku from, which was almost drowning in a river one time, and then the water sort of guiding her to-


KEITH: Oh yeah I don’t-


ALI: The shallow section, and-


KEITH: I don’t know if we exactly set that up, but Haku, one of his- his big thing is that he can’t remember his name like Sen did, and he knows Sen from like long ago. I don’t know if we actually said that or not.


ALI: Mhm. Yeah, that’s one of the- it’s something he says at the beginning of the movie and like, does not get brought up again I guess until this scene.


KEITH: Right.


DRE: Yeah.


ALI: But yeah, that’s a great moment. He remembers himself now. She-


KEITH: Yeah. The big thing is that the reason he couldn’t find his home was because she was like, oh that river got filled in and got turned into apartment complexes?


ALI: Yeah.


DRE: Yeah, yeah.


KEITH: Which is a really bad idea, don’t fill in a river, that’s a terrible thing to do that ruins the- I mean it, it ruins the earth in a broad sense, but it also will just ruin all those buildings eventually [DRE: Yeah, that’s gonna turn into a sinkhole.] and everything’s terrible. Yeah it’s gonna turn into a sinkhole, and it’s just gonna-


ART: I think I understood at one point- I don’t know how true this is, but as part of like the general-like public works in Japan, is they essentially paved all of the rivers?


KEITH: Oh.


DRE: Oh.


ART: Not like filled in, but like paved the bottom, as like an employment thing?


DRE: Huh.


ART: This is something that was like told to me. I have never looked it up. [ALI chuckles]


KEITH: Huh.


ART: So it could just be like a lie I was told? But it could also explain why there’s this idea of like, yeah we just- that used to be a river, and now it’s nothing.


KEITH: Yeah. 


ALI: Huh.


ART: Nothing I say on these should be considered an [ALI: Sure, sure.] authoritative source, especially if you’re working on a project or something. [ALI chuckles]


KEITH: Suffice to say, some people out there are talking about paving Japanese rivers.


ALI: [wheezing] Sure.


KEITH: Outside of just this movie. But just, more like you know, very- again, I gotta say this. I’m self conscious every time I say it. I always heard growing up, people going like, it’s Ghibli [pronounced as ‘gib’], not Ghibli [pronounced as ‘jib], and then all of a sudden a few years ago I started hearing the opposite? So I don’t know how to fucking say the name of this studio, because I heard two different conflicting stories. Not just, people used to say Ghibli [gib] and now they say Ghibli [jib]. I used to be told specifically it was Ghibli [gib], not Ghibli [jib].


ALI: Yeah you were corrected.


KEITH: And now I’m told specifically the opposite. [ALI: Yeah.] Yeah so, I don’t know what the truth is? I still say Ghibli [gib].


DRE: Truth is in your heart.


KEITH: Truth is in my heart. It’s also probably somewhere in Japan.


ALI: [wheezing] Sure. [KEITH laughs]


ART: I would say everyone who works there knows.[2]


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: Yeah.


ART: All the people who go to work there.


KEITH: But, just like- consistent Ghibli themes of like, the destruction of like the natural Japan, is like-


DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: A very broad, like recurring thing in Ghibli movies, like. You know, the polluted river spirit. The paved-over river spirit. A lot of river spirit ones in this one. The like, the beginner- they’re like moving into the suburbs, and the suburbs are encroaching on the like, the pastures of the place where the movie takes place. There is like the like, all of these abandoned theme parks according to the dad that is laying around everywhere. [DRE chuckles]


ART: Yeah, like many people, the Japanese had feelings about what we were doing to nature in the 20th century.


ALI: Uh huh.


KEITH: Yeah, yeah. And I don’t think it’s- I think it’s actually really not heavy-handed? Like I think they do a really good job of very naturally putting it in there? It had a lot of practice, every single movie that they do about this? [ALI laughs] [laughs]


ALI: Not every one!


ART: Slow down [laughs]


KEITH: Okay, which one isn’t?


ALI: There is- [DRE laughs] fuck you, by the way. But there is also Ghibli movies that are just like, here’s you know, a slice of life about a young girl or whatever. I don’t remember the movie- The Cat Returns isn’t about environmentalism. What is the actual thing here?


ART: Wait do you mean Ghibli movies, or do you mean all of Japanese cinema? [ALI chuckles]


KEITH: No, just Ghibli movies is what I was-


ART: Okay, cause I was gonna say, they make all sorts of those movies.


KEITH: They make a lot of those movies. Yes, I was just- I was being just a little bit snarky about this one [ALI: Sure.] production studio that I like, all the movies I’ve seen from, by the way. I don’t think I’ve- I haven’t seen them all, but.


ART: Are there like- Spirited Away? Godzilla? [ALI laughs] That’s the thing, that’s what they do over there! The movies are about-


KEITH: Porco Rosso, is that one? How’s that one-


ALI: There’s probably environmentalism in that one.


KEITH: I haven’t, I haven’t seen that one.


ALI: The movie I was thinking of was Only Yesterday, which is like.[3]


KEITH: Oh, I haven’t seen that one either. 


ALI: Regardless. But yeah, so, Haku and Chihiro make it back to Yubaba’s, at this point we know that the spell that Yubaba has on Haku is broken. You know, Sen’s on her way out because Haku is like, you have to let her go after this. And she has her final trial, which is that she is brought to the pig pen, and Yubaba’s like, okay you have to tell me which of these pigs are your parents. Chihiro’s like, none of the pigs here are my parents, ring-a-ding-ding, she got the answer right! [chuckles]


KEITH: Everyone’s thrilled.


ALI: Everyone’s thrilled!


DRE: Well she saved them all from No-Face, so like everybody loves Sen now.


KEITH: She did save them.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: Yeah, yeah she has slowly won over everyone at the bathhouse except for Yubaba basically. No one- everyone hated her when she was there, they don’t like humans, they think they smell bad.


ALI: Sure.


KEITH: And even the- even the giant baby that gets turned into a mouse is like, I don’t even wanna turn back into a giant baby, I just wanna chill as a mouse.


DRE: Mhm.


ALI: [chuckles] It’s true. That’s true.


ART: Who wouldn’t rather be a little mouse than the world’s largest baby.


DRE: We’ll make it carried around by this bug. Yeah.
ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: Is it a bug? I thought it was a tiny little bird.


ALI: Yeah.


DRE: I guess so.


ALI: I think it was a bird.


ART: What’s the difference?


KEITH: Yeah, truly.


ALI: Oh true. 


KEITH: Lifespan.


ALI: But yeah, that's the- oh my favourite shot in the scene where she gets it right is, they cut to like five frog guys and five of the like bathhouse women that like, all are identical designs? It’s like, here’s the NPCs celebrating, and it’s all the same model? And I love it, it’s so funny. But yeah they leave, and movie over.


DRE: Mhm.


ALI: Things are good. The car looks like it’s been there for days. Parents don’t really understand that- I don’t know the situation with them-


ART: The parents write it off as a prank, which is [ALI laughs] hilarious.


KEITH: Some fucking teens must have dumped some leaves on my car!


ALI: And a bunch of dust? Like this is- which like, wait a minute. 


ART: Oh ho! We saw those people go in the tunnel, let’s make it look like their car’s been here for several days!


[ALI, DRE, KEITH laugh]


KEITH: But it did work, cause the mom was like, genuinely not okay with it. She was like, I told you we shouldn’t have come in here! Like we had this nice meal, but this dice of dust on the car, this thin layer of dust has ruined it.


ALI: Don’t be a great parent- I don’t know how to pull that off, I don’t know how you have a fine layer of dust on something to prank someone? But I think if I knew how I would do this, it’s so point- [wheezes]


ART: Oh I think you have to have a bag of dust, [ALI: True.] and some leaves like in a bag in your car.


DRE: What was the name of it when you would like throw a bag of flour at somebody? There was like a name for this [ALI chuckles], I can’t remember what it was.


KEITH: Oh! I don’t know- I don’t know-


DRE: I think it came from Jackass.


ART: I haven’t heard of this.
ALI: Sure.


ART: I was really more of a Jackass movie-watcher than a Jackass television-viewer.


DRE: Antiquing. 


ALI: Antiquing?


[KEITH wheezes]


DRE: Is what that’s called. Antiquing, [KEITH laughs] yeah they just throw flour at each other.


ALI: [wheezing] That’s so funny!


DRE: So that’s, somebody antiqued their car. [ALI snorts and laughs]


ART: That’s really funny.


DRE: Mhm.


ART: I’m very happy to know this.


ALI: [laughs] Shoutout to the Jackass team!


DRE: Mhm.


ART: Yeah. For real.


DRE: Steak’s still out there doing their thing, yeah.


KEITH: Who would’ve known one of those coming out? Cannot believe there’s a new one- they had that whole- I love Jackass- they had that whole thing [ART and ALI chuckle] at the end of the third movie about like, we’re totally done, they’re going to play this Weezer song and show you all the pictures of us being young, and now we’re old, and we’re definitely not gonna do this again when we’re fifty. And here they are, doing it again when they’re fifty. Good for them I guess.


ALI: Yeah, I mean if they were in their twenties when I was in elementary school, then. They’re fifty-years old now.


ART: Yeah, there’s a- there was a good interview with Johnny Knoxville in one of those like, one of those magazines, you know? 


ALI: Uh huh.


ART: You know like Vanity Fair or GQ, one of those like, one of those magazines.


KEITH: Variety.


ART: It’s like a fun interview with Johnny Knoxville, and then pictures of him wearing like $20,000 in clothes. One of those magazines.


ALI: Mhm.


ART: About just like- the thing was like, he talks about how much respect he has for bulls.


[KEITH laughs]


DRE: You know that’s fair.


KEITH: You have to respect the bull. Oh is this! Is this the same one that had that really good quote about him doing magic, performing magic for the bull?


ART: Yeah, uh huh.


KEITH: That was such a good quote.


ALI: He performed magic… for the bull..?


KEITH: He performed- the gag of the thing was, he was performing magic for a bull, and he got like thrown into the air by this bull and knocked unconscious, and went they went to shake him awake, he was like “I guess the bull didn’t like magic.” [ALI and DRE laugh]


DRE: God, I forgot-!


ALI: I guess so.


DRE: Yep. Man I’m terri- I’m gonna see that new movie, but I sure am terrified. [ALI chuckles]


KEITH: Oh yeah it makes me extremely uncomfortable. [DRE: Especially after the uh-] This is movie version of horror movies, like I watch Jackass instead of horror movies.


DRE: I don’t know if it was in the trailer or just in one of the interviews for like publicity, but I believe Steve-O said something like “yeah, I’ve had a lot of concussions, but they’re not a big deal as long as you don’t have them before- as long as you have them before you’re fifty.”


KEITH: Yeah, and he’s like forty-eight.


DRE: And I don’t-


ALI: I don’t think it’s true!


DRE: Naw, it’s not how it works.


KEITH: No it’s not how it works. It also- that was part of a story about him getting the worst concussion of his life on the set of this movie. This new one.


ART: Uh huh.


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: So Spirited Away,


DRE: Yeah.


ART: But next season we’re gonna do the Jackass movies for one of these- [ALI laughs]


KEITH: Right. Yeah yeah yeah. 


ART: [chuckles] All of them. It’s gonna be a much bigger commitment.


[ALI and KEITH chuckle]


KEITH: But it is gonna be one show. We’re just gonna do a nine-hour podcast about the Jackass movies.


ART: Yeah. Mhm.


DRE: I mean, oh- okay. 


ALI: Dre sounds-


DRE: Yeah. Yeah alright. Yeah [ALI laughs]


ART: I’m in too. [KEITH laughs] Ali’s the one I’m not sure is in. [ALI chuckles]


KEITH: Ali, do you wanna do nine hours of Jackass?


ART: We have a big cast, we can find someone who’s-


ALI: I mean I would watch all of those movies, but I feel like we could go over them and like, three hours, right?


DRE: Nope.


KEITH: I don’t think so.


ART: Mmm.


DRE: Nope.


ALI: Sure.


KEITH: Extensive note taking. [ALI laughs]


DRE: I need an hour to break down the scene where they’re driving golf carts around a mini golf course and slamming into each other.


ALI: Well you got me there. But yeah.


KEITH: Good- good stuff. Bad stuff too.


ALI: Any final thoughts? Any- we’ve gone over the plot now, anything that you wanna say now that it would be unspoiling?


KEITH: Yeah. Great, great movie.


DRE: Great movie.


KEITH: It is such like a cleanly done tale? That it’s, I felt the entire time they were talking about it that I was struggling to have things to say about it in a way that I’m not usually. Because it’s just like, you know, it is- a lot of the scenes feel fleeting, a lot of the performances are like you know, just okay. A lot of the like the themes are like, pretty obvious but not super complicated?


DRE: Yeah.


ALI: Mhm.


DRE: But also not like overwrought either?


KEITH: Right, yeah, it’s also not over- like it’s just well- if it was just like, I don’t know. It’s sort of like, it’s sort of like having a you know, you have like a dessert, like a dessert and you’re like, it’s really good. And it’s like, “oh what do you like about it?” and I’m like “I don’t know, the whole thing! It’s just really good.” [ALI laughs] Like I just really like it.


ALI: Fair. Yeah I get that, yeah. I feel like my sort of favourite thing about it is that the threat are so clean and so dire? [KEITH: Right. Yeah, totally.] But you don’t know- you don’t feel like the stress that you would feel if these circumstances were having you know, a character was having in a movie in a different tone for instance.


KEITH: Right, Chihiro takes everything kind of on the chin, after the first-


ALI: Right. And it’s not- I mean, it’s not that she’s not emotive, it’s not that we don’t see her stressed or scared or crying or whatever in the film, but like. The fear of like losing your memories, or like really losing your name, or like that your parents are going to be cursed as pigs forever or whatever, like. Really scary! But-


KEITH: Yeah, she gets given the things that she has to do by Haku at the beginning of the movie, and she’s very focused on it. 


ALI: Mhm.


KEITH: Which is like, defines a lot of what she does, and also is like, that’s part of why she didn’t just get eaten by No-Face or whatever. Like if she was taking No-Face’s gold, like that guy would’ve eaten the whole bath house or something. But like the- her, the character’s focus in the face of the different threats and problems like, I think it gives the movie a really brisk pace, like the whole movie is focused the way that she is focused? I’m trying to think, there’s me- how many scenes is she not in? Maybe one?


ALI: We get a couple scenes- we get a couple solo scenes with Yubaba and Haku?


KEITH: Yeah, yeah. Couple of those.


ALI: But yeah, I think that might be it.


KEITH: Yeah.


ART: Yeah she’s definitely the character.


ALI: Uh huh.


KEITH: Yeah.


DRE: Mhm.


KEITH: Which is funny, that’s- it was true about There Will Be Blood too.


ALI: Right! [chuckles] That’s something we mentioned there.


ART: Yeah. Movies have a lot in common if you think about it.


ALI: Ohhh!


KEITH: Yeah, they’re very similar sorts of movies about-


ALI: About environmentalism and greed?


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: And the importance of family connection?


KEITH: Right.


ART: Yeah.


KEITH: And oil. [ALI laughs]


DRE: Mhm.


ART: And why it’s bad to eat people I think. I think that’s-


ALI: Oh true true true.


KEITH: That’s in both, yeah yeah yeah.


ART: In both, yeah.


DRE: True, true. Mhm.


ART: We’re really nailing this.


KEITH: I think so.


DRE: Do not eat people or drink their milkshake.


ALI: See? Don’t do that.


KEITH: Right. [ALI chuckles] Because you will be able to eat people, and drink their milkshake.


DRE: Yes.


KEITH: But it won’t do you any good. No one can stop you from it, but it won’t help.


DRE: Right, yeah.


ALI: Sure.


KEITH: That is the big read on- that is like one of the common reads on No-Face, is that No-Face is essentially Daniel Plainview?


ALI: Oh I’ve seen that a lot, yeah.


DRE: Yeah, uh huh.


KEITH: Yeah.


ART: Yeah. [ALI giggles] Really the other way around, because this predates-


KEITH: Oh sure, yes. Yeah yeah yeah.


ART: That Paul Thomas Anderson saw-


DRE: Little known fact, Miyazaki actually wrote There Will Be Blood? Like thirty years ago?


ART: Mm!


DRE: And then- but then lost the script, and.


KEITH: Oh, so this is like a studio pickup script?


ART: Wow.


DRE: Yeah, and then they found it over here.


KEITH: Okay, wow.


DRE: Yeah, it was in an abandoned lockbox in LA.


KEITH: Yeah, what if we took this No-Face character, took him out of the bath house, and put him in the oil pit.


DRE: Mhm.


ALI: Mhm.


KEITH: What would he do there?


ALI: Only if Daniel Plainview had a grandma.


DRE: Oh hey I got a question.


ALI: Yeah.


DRE: Is Lin human?


ALI: That’s an interesting question right? I don’t think so.


KEITH: …No. No.


KEITH: My understanding is that the only human in that whole, beside- in that whole movie, are the parents and Chihiro.


DRE: Okay.


ART: And Lin kind of has like- I don’t wanna say like, [chuckles] I don’t wanna get like too essentialist about what humanity is, but she’s got like really big legs, right? [ALI laughs] There’s that scene where like, [KEITH laughs] her and the others, they’re like cleaning the floor, and they’re like just pushing-


DRE: Damn Art. Yeah no, I see what you’re about bro! Hell yeah bro!


KEITH: She might just have ripped legs from doing that work all day.


DRE and ALI: Yeah.


ALI: I think that’s a practice.


ART: Mmm. I thought she was more like a, some sort of grasshopper person.


ALI: Oh sure.


DRE: Let’s see.


KEITH: Well the way that she eats that newt, I sort of thought that she’s just a sort of newt-eating humanoid frog, like the other frogs.


DRE: Okay. According to the Ghibli wiki, in the Japanese picture book for Spirited Away, Lin is described as a byakko, which is a white tiger.


ALI: Oh?


ART: Ohhh.


DRE: But was later changed to… Byakko, which looks to be… spelled the same? Okay. They translate it in English the same, but the Japanese is different. Meaning white fox. But then in the English picture book, that is translated as a weasel. So she is a tiger-fox-weasel.


ALI: Sure.


DRE: Mhm.


KEITH: Okay, fair. [ART: Sure.] She doesn’t look like any of those.


DRE: Uhhh-


ART: No.


DRE: I kind of see like, weasel in like her face, a little bit.


ALI: Yeah, it seems like she has a sort of a round- or like a long, like a pointed face.


DRE: Yeah like a long, pointed face, with like a pointed but like little nose.


ALI: Yeah. She’s a human like you know, Es is a human. [DRE: Yeah.] We’ve got humanoid-


DRE: Yeah, and the frogs are humanoid.


KEITH: Well, in a world-
ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: In a world where the presence of a human totally disrupted the lives of every single person in the bath house, [ALI: Uh huh.] and then like, people were refusing to work with a human because [DRE: Yeah.] of their smell? I know that Haku at some point says like, the smell will go away when she eats our food for a few days, but I, it doesn’t seem like anyone there would consider themselves human. [DRE: Yeah, yeah.] [ALI: Mhm.] Except for Chihiro.


ALI: Yeah. Are there any like lessons, or like images, or tones-


KEITH: Do not facilitate the destruction of pastoral Japan.


ALI: [laughs] I was gonna say that you were going to carry on to Sangfielle, which I think [KEITH: Oh okay.] is also part one of the themes of Sangfielle which is, don’t destroy [laughs]


KEITH: Yeah, okay. 


ALI: Don’t destroy the land or- mhm.


ART: Pastoral Japan, one of our things- I think that was on the board at the beginning of the season.


DRE: Mhm.


KEITH: There’s some, you know, there’s some industrialization going on in Sangfielle.


ALI: Sure. It’s like right on the edge, right? I mean we just had that big vampire monster that was like, a villain because it was trying to start industrialization to be a more efficient empire.


KEITH: Well, we’ve also got the trains, people try to harness the trains.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: Trains, famously part of industrialization [ALI chuckles]. And to a lesser extent, the [exhales] guy from the first arc with the- Aterika’Kaal, what was that guy’s name, Roseroot?


ALI: Dayward YVE.


KEITH: Dayward YVE. Roseroot- was that right? Did I just pull it out from something else?


ALI: It is, yeah. No no no, it’s Roseroot. Roseroot Hall


KEITH: Okay. You know, that guy. Part of the Aterika’Kaal curse was like hey, you can be our personal evil god if we get to cut down your whole forest.


ALI: Mhm.


KEITH: Or I guess you know, his ancestors.


ALI: We’ll just keep feeding you, until we’re about- you don’t have to worry-


KEITH: Very No-Face! [ALI chuckles]


DRE: Mhm.


ALI: Sure.


KEITH: Seeing, seeing you know, flashes of No-Face is what I’m excited about. [laughs]


ALI: You’re seeing No-Face everywhere! That’s really the thing with No-Face, that I was going to mention before is like, is that I feel like it’s become an iconic character that’s been so like, I don’t wanna say divorced from the movie, but it’s like you know, a face that you recognize [DRE: Yeah, totally.] even if you haven’t seen it? Like if you’ve been to an anime convention ever, you’ve seen a bunch of people dressed as this guy [chuckles]. And only known it as this sort of foreboding creature. And that’s why I think when you see it in the movie, it both having like such a small part, and also such like a, like an undefined part of it is, like oh, huh, like Dre said before.


KEITH: I’m very conflicted about No-Face. Like I really would like to- I wish I had a better idea of what I thought about No-Face?


ALI: Mmm.


KEITH: I think Dre what you said at the beginning is like, is like very literal, but also closest to what I think is actually happening? Which I don’t think- I think people think a little too hard maybe about No-Face? [DRE: Yeah.] Which is like, yeah, he’s kind of a lonely sad guy, he’s sort of a pitiable, and he tries to get people to like him by appealing to their-


ALI: Desires?


KEITH: Need? Desires? [DRE: Yeah.] You know, or some- which is, you know, not super- not a like, a super complex read, it’s really like what he just does.


DRE: I guess to me, it wasn’t specifically that like, it was more that like he saw this is what the people here like? [KEITH: Right, yeah yeah yeah yeah.] So by like leaning into that, I can make them like me.


KEITH: Right, because he saw people-


DRE: It’s not cause he’s inherently was gonna be greedy, [KEITH: Right.] but he saw everyone else.


KEITH: Yeah, cause he saw people reacting to the gold [DRE: Mhm.] that the river spirit left. And I think that there’s, I don’t know. I think that that’s probably exactly right, but also like, what does that like- all of these people or just like, immediately corruptible? [chuckles] Like all these people here like, all that they want is gold for no reason other than they’re greedy gold lovers.


DRE: Well, I think that like, I mean some of them it probably is greed, but I think there’s probably a commentary there too of like, all these workers are like fucking broke and meanwhile,


ALI: Yeah.


DRE: Yubaba has like gold and jewels [KEITH: I mean-] and everything. [KEITH: I agree with that-] And Lin talks about like-


ART: And a very giant baby.


DRE: Yeah and Lin talks about like, one of these days I’m going to be able to afford the train ticket to get out of here.


KEITH: Right, which is something we didn’t mention, is Kamaji giving her six train tickets, which count as two rides I guess, which like-


DRE: It was four.


KEITH: Oh right it was four, okay. It was-


DRE: Yeah cause it was one for her, one for No-Face, one for the mouse, and one for the bird.


KEITH: Oh she had to pay for the mouse and the bird?! [ALI chuckles]


DRE: Yep!


KEITH: Rip off. [DRE: I agree, yeah.] Absolute highway robbery, or train track robbery. Yeah, so which was- but Lin saw those tickets and was like, this is- you have a treasure, like.


ALI and DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: You can see that she thought that was a treasure.


ALI: Also just like-


DRE: I thought you were cool for having this newt, but.


ALI: [chuckles] But also like-


KEITH: Been saving for forty years.


ALI: -another thing we brushed over is just like, the conditions that the workers are in, like. Chihiro and Lin are sleeping in a room of like, eighteen women? 


DRE: Everyone. [chuckles]


ALI: Where just the entire floor is covered with beds and stuff? And like, people in that position are gonna want to have gold to get out or-


KEITH: This is sort of the thing, is like all of that stuff is in the movie, but then when it comes to the No-Face part, it’s totally absent. There’s nothing connecting those two bits of the movie? And maybe it’s just like, well you obviously can see that I’m saying something about the conditions of these people in the other parts of the movie, so why don’t you just connect it? But they’re so like, they’re so clownishly you know, like-


ALI: Like-?


KEITH: Like they’re, they’re so ridiculous in how they try to get this gold, they’re like [DRE: Yeah.] in big crowds, like cheering being like, [high-pitched voice] “Give me gold! Give me gold!”, holding up buckets, you know, trying to grab- trampling each other to get it off the ground, and it’s like. It seems like it’s making fun of them in those moments, and not sympathizing with them.


DRE: Sure.


KEITH: Which is weird because other bits of the movie, like you and Ali were just talking about, do seem like they’re trying to show like how much everything is you know, vacuumed up by Yubaba and how everyone there- I mean everyone there is [DRE: Well.] at best an indentured servant.


DRE: Oh yeah, absolutely. Yeah.


KEITH: Like, they’re you know, but they signed a contract that steals their name, and they can never leave. I mean they’re slaves, at this place.


DRE: Let me- let me propose this, Keith. Maybe No-Face is just like Lindsay Lohan’s character in Mean Girls, where she starts as an outcast, and then begins to take on the traits of people she sees as popular and successful in her new environment. But then she realizes that she’s become the real Mean Girl. [ALI: Mmm.] Because she’s gone too far.


ART: Oh my god can we just this whole movie [ALI laughs] with the cast of Mean Girls? [KEITH laughs]


DRE: Yeah, sure. Yeah.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: I would have to watch Mean Girls to do that.


ALI: You have to watch Mean Girls-


DRE: So Chihiro’s Gretchen Wieners, obviously. I forgot the actress’ name.


ART: It’s summer here, so we’ll- in LA, so what if the sound of wheeling and dealing on the lull- [DRE chuckles]


KEITH: Look at that, hundred and fifteen decibels!


ART: And we’ll- we’ll get that together, we’ll get that greenlit, that will be the next Friends at the Table project. Friends at the Table Presents: Spirited Away as performed by the cast of Mean Girls. Tina Fey is gonna be Yubaba, right? That’s-


ALI: Oh yeah. [KEITH laughs]


DRE: Oh yeah.


ALI: Yeah yeah yeah. She wouldn’t like- [overlap unintelligible]


KEITH: Wait so it’s a movie about the writing, or- is it gonna be a movie about the production of the movie, Mean Girls?


ALI: Well we’re gonna do- we’re gonna release the movie, and then we’re gonna do a Behind-the-Scenes documentary.


KEITH: Okay.


ART: Mhm.


KEITH: And that’s where Tina Fey is Yubaba?


ALI: No no no, in the movie she’s also Yubaba-


ART: No- the movie is Spirited Away performed by the cast of Mean Girls. In which Tina Fey, who was in the movie Mean Girls, [KEITH: Oh, okay.] will play Yubaba.


KEITH: I didn’t know that she was in the movie, I thought she just wrote it.


ALI: No she’s in it.


ART: No no, she plays the- one of the teachers, she has the big monologue at the end.


DRE: Mhm.


ART: Have you not seen Mean Girls?


KEITH: And I proclaim you all mean girls!


ART: I mean kinda.


DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: No, I think I’ve seen bits of it like forever and ever ago. But no I haven’t seen it. 


ART: It’s it’s worth seeing.


DRE: Yeah, it’s alright.


ALI: Yeah, there’s the- [KEITH: People have loved it for a long time.] the turn on Tina Fey and her style of writing has really soured that movie for me, especially when you compare it to other- like just watch Clueless. [chuckles] Just watch Clueless.


KEITH: Clueless I have seen.


ALI: They’re not the same movie like at all, but, it’s fine. 


DRE: [chuckles] Oh yeah, they’re very different.


ALI: They’re very different movies [laughs], but anyway. Are we- do we have anything else to say here? Any podcast thoughts before we-?


KEITH: Yeah.


ART: Feels like we might’ve not.


KEITH: Yeah I hit it all. I looked at my notes, I’m tapped out.


ALI: Sure.


KEITH: Hate- the parents are so, the parents, at the beginning, and they’re not much better at the end if they’re better at all, it’s just like they don’t have many lines at the end. They are so wrapped up in their own shit, and they’re like- guys, you have a seven-year old daughter.


DRE: Mhm. [KEITH chuckles]


ALI: It’s a stressful day!


KEITH: Like there’s- yeah, but you’re not supposed to act that way. [chuckles] [ALI laughs] 


DRE: No you’re not. Nuh-uh.


KEITH: I- it is like, it’s a very small moment, but I really loved in the beginning like, the first line of the movie is the wife complaining about the new, the new place? And like the fifth line of the movie is her scolding the kid for complaining about the new place? [ALI chuckles]


ALI: They’re doing their best.


KEITH: Anyway that’s it, that’s all- [ALI laughs] maybe you deserve to spend a few days under a curse. Jerk parents.


ART: But they didn’t remember it! So.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: Yeah, they didn't remember it.


DRE: They didn’t learn anything!


KEITH: Yeah, they didn’t learn anything. Yeah the end of the movie is them sort of being like, yeah, I guess it is tough to go to a new school, and then Chihiro’s like, “I’ll be fine”, because the thing that she just did was way worse and way harder than going to a new school, granted? But yeah, it is- I would say maybe a mild, an extremely mild personal peeve with the movie is that, it’s a movie where this kid who is being treated like shit by her parents very briefly, admittedly, is the one who has to learn how to be tougher, and not the parents have to learn how to [DRE: Yeah.] not be asshole parents?


DRE: Nope, I’m with you.


KEITH: But hey! That’s life!


ALI: That is life.


KEITH: Parents suck!


ALI: That is life. That is life. I do really like the-


KEITH: School! You gotta to school, it’s gonna suck! [ALI giggles, ART laughs]


ALI: I do really like the disconnect there, just cause it’s like, I mean it’s such like a fable in a way that it like makes sense for it to be about a young girl, right? But also just the like, the setting of the opening of that scene of her being so acutely aware of something that’s going on, and the parents completely disregarding it? Is, [KEITH: Yeah, yeah.] is great to me.


KEITH: There’s definitely a read where they are being compelled to fall for this curse? [ALI: Mhm.] Like earlier on, like there’s a small minute where before they even go into the first step of the tunnel, where she’s like, she says something like “the wind is pulling us in?”


ALI: Yeah.


ART: Mhm.


KEITH: And there is definitely a way you could read that movie where the second that they stop and get out of their car, they’re already like in their predestined to fall for this curse? Or at least like, highly likely to? Which I don’t know. I’m agnostic about. [ALI: Sure.] But it’s- it’s just something I noticed, is like huh, I wonder if they’re already like- the second they stop to get that food, they're’ shovelling it in their faces like they were already some sort of spell.


ALI: Right, yeah and there’s like weaving enchantments in a way that’s like, I guess [KEITH: Yeah, yeah.] we’ve covered how it like ends up getting kind of goofy cause there’s this late-game like, oh there’s this three other spells that you didn’t know about that are now broken. But like, in terms- especially with the conversation we’ve had about some of the No-Face stuff where it’s like, how much is that nature versus enchantment versus this other thing, and like some of the questions around that in the movie I think are interesting.


KEITH: Right. It does a lot to highlight the sort of out-of-place-ness of the movie? [ALI: Mhm.] Where it’s like, like I don’t know how obvious this stuff would be to someone who lived there, like Haku’s a special circumstance, he knows a lot of about how the world works? I don’t know if like Lin knows as much about how the world works, but it’s at least like, we are coming from it from a totally unfamiliar place where all of these rules, I mean they’re not just unlikely rules, they’re impossible rules? [ALI: Mhm.] We never could’ve guessed that that’s how any of this works? [ALI chuckles] But like Haku might’ve known the whole time and been like, yeah, but I don’t think this other stuff is need-to-know, like it’s just, no sense in worrying her about these other aspects of it, as long as she remembers her clothes or remembers her name, we’re good.


ALI: Mhm. Yeah. Well, that was Spirited Away! I’m glad we watched it and talked about it.


DRE: Yeah! 


KEITH: Yeah.


ART: Yeah.


KEITH: This was weirdly I think the hardest one to talk about. I was surprised at how that shook out.


ALI: Well, I think we did a good job.


ART: I should’ve had Jess do this show instead of me, because she had like a different opinion, she like watched it and really did not like watching it.


ALI: Oh wow.


KEITH: I don’t know that I’ve ever heard that, so that, I mean-


ART: Between the like, I’ve said before, she didn’t care [KEITH: She didn’t care for the rules.] for the like- the rules, feeling like they were all just being iterated upon. The like, grossness of it really [ALI chuckles] got to her in a way.


DRE: Yeah that’s fair.


ALI: She’s not a fan of the stink spirit.


ART: Or the- No-Face is just like vomiting a lot?


ALI: Oh sure sure sure.


DRE: Yeah, no yeah, that’s pretty rough.
ART: Not the end, but at the end of the arc.


ALI: Yeah. Well, cartoon violence you know-


KEITH: Then it’s sort of, it’s sort of like, I don’t even think it’s Act Three.


ART: Mhm.


ALI: Yeah. A four I guess [chuckles].


KEITH: Yeah I don’t know, it’s, in a sort of Ghibli way, sort of eschews, I mean in maybe this is obvious, but now that I’m saying it, but it’s like, it does not have exactly a traditional three-act structure [ALI: Sure.] that you know every single western movie does. Because it’s not one.


ALI: [chuckles] Every single one, yes.


KEITH: Pretty close!


ALI: And next week, somebody will be talking about one of the other western movies with a three-act structure that is on the docket. I think the other ones- I don’t know the orders of this? But we mentioned There Will Be Blood, and we’re also gonna be talking about Crimson Peak, and the 1997 I wanna say Dracula? But I could be wrong about that.


ART: Oh, I think it’s earlier, but-


ALI: 1992? ‘91 maybe? But yeah, the 90s Dracula.


ART: I was too young to see it, that’s how I know it’s not-


ALI: Ohhh!


ART: ‘97, I wouldn’t have been too young to see it.


KEITH: It’s been a while since-


ALI: [giggles] I wish anyone had ever thought that I was too young to see a movie. I saw Event Horizon in theatres when I was eight.


DRE: Woah!


ALI: Yeeah.


ART: Oh, that’s too young.


ALI: [laughing] It fucked me up.


KEITH: I haven’t seen that-


ART: I saw that movie when I was 20 and I was like, I should’ve waited [ALI laughs] before I saw this one.


DRE: Yeah dawg, you-!


ALI: I’ve made it through. It’s alright.


DRE: Mmkay.


ALI: I actually-


KEITH: Is it really that scary?


ALI: It’s not- it’s funny because for years and years and years, I think that I had actually like, traumatically dropped like, locked that movie out because I can remember the parking spot in the parking lot that we parked in before we saw that movie, I remember getting out of the car, but I cannot remember a single plot beat until I watched it again in my like mid-twenties [wheezing].


KEITH: So your event horizon would be you watching Event Horizon.


ALI: Mhm. [chuckles nervously]


ART: Mmm.


KEITH: Is that- that’s what that movie’s about, right? It’s the beginning of Bill and Ted’s Bogus Journey where they have their own personal hells? Is that what Event Horizon is?


ALI: Suuuu-


ART: Not.


[ALI giggles]


DRE: No.


ART: Really.


DRE: Event Horizon is they open a wormhole in space to hell.


ART: Yeah.


KEITH: Okay, it’s not a personal hell, it’s [ALI: It’s a real hell, yeah yeah yeah.] just a general hell. It’s Doom hell.


ART: Yeah it’s-


DRE: No it’s hell hell.


ART: Doom hell is hell, right?


KEITH: Doom hell is hell hell, yeah.


DRE: Yeah yeah yeah.


ART: We should do Event Horizon, I don’t know what it’s-


DRE: Nope, I’m good. [ALI chuckles] Naw, I’m good. I’m good.


KEITH: I’m surprised-


ALI: I think that the time that we do a season inspired enough by Event Horizon that we would talk about it for a show, I’m having some issues doing this show [laughs].


DRE: Yeah no, yeah. [KEITH laughs] I’m looking at the wiki for like the plot summary of Event Horizon, and there is this sentence that I’m not gonna say, cause it’s so gross that I don’t wanna say it.


KEITH: You should say, we’ll just bleep it.


DRE: Um-


KEITH: Sorry I’m giving you bleep work Ali.


ALI: Yeah it’s fine- [wheezing]


DRE: Yeah, no. They meet this guy who’s been in hell who was on the spaceship. And-


KEITH: Yeah, normal.


DRE: He has [bleep] his own [bleep] out and is just holding them and like showing them.


KEITH: Ew.


ALI: Yeah.


DRE: Yeah.


ART: Yeah, it’s horrible.


DRE: And then they have a weird orgy where everyone’s also mutilating each other.


KEITH: Ew.


DRE: Yeah no it’s gr- it’s not- it’s bad!


KEITH: I just thought this was a sci-fi movie that was kind of with horror themes.


ALI: No. It’s-


ART: That is what people think this movie is, yes.


KEITH: I had no idea that it was a really brutal-


KEITH: I had no idea that that was what that was. I guess I won’t ever see that.


ALI: Avoid it if you can.


DRE: Yeah no.


ART: But we will be back for nine hours on Jackass. [ALI laughs] Eventually.


KEITH: And now that I mentioned it, can we do Bill and Ted Bogus’ Journey for anything?


ALI: Sure [chuckling]. Sure! 


KEITH: What a phenomenon, I mean how do you make a movie that bizarre, ever? Such a weird one to be in wide release in years.


ART: It’s the first Bill and Ted movie that I saw, and it really, really set up the first movie to a standard it could not possibly meet. [ALI laughs]


KEITH: Oh! You saw Bogus Journey first.


ART: I saw Bogus Journey theatrically. And I was too young to have seen the first movie theatrically it’s just like, let’s do it. Cause there was a Bill and Ted animated series that I liked, because back in those days, every movie got an animated series? I’m not sure what the rules were back then? But like all sorts of movies that were like, not super kids movies got animated series.


KEITH: Right. It was just part of the deal.


ART: The most famous one being I think Ghostbusters.


KEITH: Yeah, yeah definitely. Huh. I had no idea there was a Bill and Ted- I assume Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter were in it?


ART: I mean, now I’m like wondering if I’m just wrong?


KEITH: Was George Carlin in it?


ART: Um, probably not. Oh I might have- oh yeah, Bill and Ted’s Excellent Adventures, TV series, 1990 to 1991.


KEITH: It was probably a lot like Wishbone.


ART: It did wonders when Bogus Journey came out. ‘89 was when Bill and Ted’s Excellent Adventure came out.


ALI: Well. [laughs] Goodnight everyone. 


DRE: [laughs] Uh, clap?


ALI: Sure [chuckles].


DRE: A goodnight clap.


KEITH: I like this one. I thought it was fun, I like getting off topic.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: It’s my favourite topic, is off topic.


ALI: Sure, yeah yeah yeah.


ART: Bogus Journey is not the one with the-


KEITH: In second place is Hot Topic [chuckles]. [ALI giggles]


ALI: Go get some Spirited Away merchandise, yeah!


DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: I’ve actually never been in a Hot Topic-


ALI: [whispers] What?!


KEITH: Cause the one at my local mall [DRE: Wait-] smelled so bad that I wouldn’t ever go inside of it [ALI bursts out laughing]


DRE: Never ever ever ever?


KEITH: No, never. I mean, I was just so not that kid? 


ALI: Sure.


KEITH: Nothing about what it looked like, it was gonna be in there? [DRE: Yeah.] Looked like it was for me.


ALI: Never had-


KEITH: But on top of that-


ALI: Even a little bit of a goth phase?


KEITH: No, not even close.


ALI: You didn’t even have a band t-shirt phase.


KEITH: I did have a little bit of a band t-shirt phase.


DRE: But you never had a band wrist sweatbands phase. [ALI chuckles]


KEITH: No, not even close.


DRE: That’s, that’s what your boy had.


KEITH: In high school, I had a Jimmy Hendrix t-shirt, and I had a Beatles t-shirt.


ALI: Sure, okay. [laughs]


KEITH: Yeah, that's it.


ART: Those were the two shirts. [ALI laughs] So-


DRE: I remember wearing my Linkin Park chain wallet, [ALI: Wooow.] and like six band wristbands and thinking I was the hottest shit.


ALI: At the time, it was a look I bet.


KEITH: Yeah, not even close, I also- I was also not-


DRE: This was yesterday. [ALI laughs]


KEITH: None of the music that anybody that shopped at Hot Topic was music that I liked? Like it was just total- it was almost like a mirror of the stuff that I liked at the time.


ALI: Sure.


DRE: Mmm.


KEITH: And it, again, did not help that it smelled so bad that I would cross to the other side of the mall so I didn’t have to walk directly past it. I mean it really stunk. It literally smelled really bad!


DRE: Mhm. [ALI chuckles] Worse than Abercrombie?


KEITH: Yes. Yeah, it didn’t smell like perfume or any sort of-


DRE: Just smelled like stink.


ALI: Yeeeah.


KEITH: Honestly, I have the smell locked into my brain and I could not describe it to you, I have never smelled anything like it in my life before or since.


ALI: Stores just sometimes do I- there’s some Marshalls in my hometown that always smelled like vomit. Just always. And I hated [KEITH laughs] going there because it smelled like vomit every single time. [chuckles]


DRE: That’s unfortunate.


ART: Yeah, that’ll do it.


KEITH: It’s like this- there is, okay you say Abercrombie, and I do go- there was a musk to it, like maybe-


DRE: It’s all the cologne, yeah. It’s all the cologne.


KEITH: The worst cologne in the world? But it didn’t- it wasn’t, it was acidic and earthy, but not in a way that I associate with cologne now knowing a little bit more about cologne than I did when I was twelve.


ALI: Were the Hot Topic just like, you know lighting incense in there, maybe? 


KEITH: It could’ve been some sort of disgusting incense, but just- the idea that someone would want to smell or smell like this smell, [ALI chuckles] is weirder than anything that happened in Spirited Away. I would more likely believe there is a bath house full of frogmen than that someone intentionally wanted this smell around.


ALI: Fair.


KEITH: But then, I can’t think of a- I can’t think of any other reason why I would’ve smelled like that all the time!


ALI: [chuckles] Just you know, dirty packaging that came in or something? The boxes all there?


KEITH: I wonder if I would’ve had that phase if I had gone inside- if going inside the Hot Topic would’ve changed me [ALI laughs] into someone who liked you know, the worst kind of pop punk and also black pants.


ALI: Hey. You don’t have to get insulting.


DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: Sorry. [ALI laughs] No no, you’re right.


DRE: You better hope Sylvi never fucking listens to this episode [ALI chuckles]


KEITH: I didn’t- I’m not saying all pop punk, just the Hot Topic pop punk.


ALI: Anyway, do y’all wanna clap?


KEITH: Or post-hardcore, hate it.


DRE: Yeah we should probably cla- [ALI giggles] wow, wow.


KEITH: Sorry to my post-hardcore fans.


DRE: Wooow. Wow wow wow wow wow wow. I gotta clap right now, or I’m gonna quit the podcast!


ALI: [chuckles] Fifty-five?


[smattering of claps]


ALI: I heard two claps there.


ART: Alright, so I looked up the Bill and Ted cartoon.


ALI: Oh?


ART: There are two seasons, each season produced by a completely different animation studio? The first season produced by Hanna-Barbera has the entire movie cast.


KEITH: Wow!


ART: Has Keanu Reeves, Alex Winter, George Carlin. Second season they lose all three of them. [KEITH laughs] And replaced them with the three people who would go on- or the Bill and Ted from the second season would then go on to play Bill and Ted on a live action Bill and Ted television series that I’m convinced Wikipedia is making up, I’ve never heard of this.


[episode ends]






________________
[1] Transcriber's Note:
Chihiro's full name in Japanese is 荻野 千尋 (Ogino Chihiro), and with the 1st, 2nd, and 4th characters taken away, the 3rd character left on its own is "千" (Sen), which literally means "one-thousand".
[2] Transcriber's note:
For anyone who wants to know, it's Ghibli pronounced as 'jib'.
The Japanese is "ジブリ", which is Ji-bu-ri.
[3] Transcriber's note:
Oh I thought of "When Marnie Was There", another Ghibli that's a slice of life about a young girl.
Obviously the Friends are riffing but there's tons of non-environmental Ghibli films.