New Merch Alert!
Transcriber: Daneran
Ali: Hello, everyone! It's Ali here, with a announcement for Friends at the Table. The first of which is to thank you and to apologize for us missing an episode this week. It's been yet another hectic month in the Friends of the Table office. Plus the most of us being in the States celebrating Thanksgiving, it was just sort of best to take off. And the mystery of Dust will continue in the next episode of PALISADE! You know. I don't like to… I don't like to skip episodes, but, you know, this is an above-average cliffhanger, so. You know, look forward to that!
But what I'm really here to talk about today is that [sing-song] you should go to friendsatthetable.shop! [imitates sirens] We have a bunch of different products launching today! I am just going to go through the list right now, because it's a lot and I don't want to forget anything. The first of which is that we have a Twilight Mirage t-shirt! Brand new! The Twilight Mirage people finally have a t-shirt! It was designed by Conner Fawcett. I love this design! It's dense! It's wacky! It's fun! It's colorful! It's Twilight Mirage, baby! So go check it out!
Speaking of Conner Fawcett! Maybe, perhaps, you've been wishing that you bought a COUNTER/Weight t-shirt when those were available — and let me give you some good news: you can go buy it now! We're finally reprinting the COUNTER/Weight T-shirt with Conner's fantastic art. It is available in the navy blue that it was with Fangamer, originally, and also in sort of like this, like, smoky-red color, which is kind of interesting… Those are there for you!
And let me tell you something! These guys are print by order! So if you want one, you can probably go get one. Do I think at some point the Fourth Wall Warehouse is going to sell out of navy blue t-shirts? Sure. But do I think that, like, any garment brand is going to keep producing navy blue t-shirts? I do think that! So, you know. No stress this time, guys! But go buy it! If you want one, go get it. It is there for you. I'm very excited that we are able to offer this again. 
Speaking of things that we are offering again, and convenient segues, we are also offering two new colors of the Millennium Break hoodie! It's a hoodie-hoodie. It's a pullover hoodie and not a zip up. And to sort of honor that change in outerwear style — I don't know my — I'm lacking my Fashion Dreamer terms right now. But in honor of the new cut, I suppose, we've released it in two brand new colors: one is black on red; and the other is red on white.
The white hoodie is a little bit more expensive because it's a little bit more premium: the fabric is heavier; it is made out of recycled materials. I have held both of them in my hands and you can sort of tell the difference in weight between them even between two identical sizes. But they’re both gorgeous, they will both fit your needs, depending. Maybe you just really like red! Or, um, you want a lighter hoodie that you can wear in the beginning of the fall! Or you're not in a very cold climate! Red hoodie is there for you. Maybe you do want something, you know, thicker or warmer or having something made out of recycled materials is exciting or important to you — that white Millennium Break hoodie is there to fit your needs!
Moving on down the list. We are also offering a PALISADE deskmat made out of the absolutely gorgeous widescreen art of our current PALISADE cover art, designed by Erica AKA Aurahack. Beautiful art. Great to have in your desk. Comfortable. Printed brightly. Gorgeous. We have two different sizes depending on what you're looking for. I'm using one now. I love it. It looks great. I immediately cut my finger and got a little bit of a bloodstain on it, so, I think that everybody should also go do that, too! [chuckles] But your mileage may vary on what you want to do with your PALISADE deskmat. Um. [laughs] What are we doing, folks? Happy holidays!
Two more products to go. We also have a Millennium Break beanie, using the treatment of the Millennium break logo that Janine designed for us. You know, keep your head warm. A subtle representation of Friends at the Table. People are gonna ask you: “Hey, what team is that?” And you're going to say: “It's the team of justice” or whatever. However you feel about Millennium Break! I'm not going to tell you how to feel about Millennium Break. Besides that… I really like this beanie. And the two aforementioned hoodies.
And our last product to mention here is our Calci-Yummm! sticker sheet featuring “Yummmo, in space!” Um. I'm obsessed with this thing. This is also designed by the amazing and incredible Janine Hawkins. I think — I'm speaking from the heart here when I say that I think that Calci-Yummm! should be on the tables of everybody, at breakfasttime or dinnertime or lunchtime or whenever you need Calci-Yummm! the most. And I think that you should do that with Yummmo by your side… [laughs] So… pick it up!
That is all of our products. There's still more to talk about. The first of which is that if you spend more than $100 throughout December 3rd… so not the Sunday that's tomorrow but the following Sunday after that — the whole first week of sales, basically — if you spend more than $100 you will get a free Calci-Yummm! sticker sheet. Yummmo will be coming home with you. There's no funny promo code or, you know, anything with that. If you spend $100 and you add the sheet to your cart it will show up as free. And even you can travel to space with some Calci-Yummm! at your side! You know, just a little thank you for supporting the first week of this launch.
And my final note I guess is a little bit more somber. But, you know, we at the Friends at the Table office are very excited to offer merch, we're very excited that our audience is super enthusiastic about it, and it's something that gets asked for a lot. But I think that we all felt we would be kind of remiss not to use this opportunity to take some of these funds and… try to have it go to somebody who might need it more. So our first week of sales, 25% of the profits is going to be donated to Doctors Without Borders to support the work that they are doing in Gaza right now as well as the many other humanitarian crisises that the foundation tries to… to assist with.
You know, I speak for everybody at Friends at the Table when I say that our hearts go out to everybody effected by the violence of the Israeli Defense Force right now. And I think it's just sort of a thing of what you do, and as a team, collectively, we felt like this is the thing that we could do. We, of course encourage anybody to support in any way that they can, whether it is also donating to Doctors Without Borders, whether it is voicing your support of the Palestinian people however they can — this is the action that we wanted to take to support Palestine. And, you know, anybody who buys something this launch and helps us be able to do that: shout outs to you!
But yeah. You know, our… We make a show that does not directly deal with real life issues, but certainly speaks to them, and some of our beliefs. And especially with, you know, the themes around Palisade and Twilight Mirage especially, we just really wanted to use this launch as a way to… support those issues going on right now while it is, you know, ongoing and time-sensitive.
But yeah! So that's everything [chuckles] for me, I guess! Frien… Head on over to friendsatthetable.shop to check out the new collection! I love everything that we're offering. I hope that you do, too. And, you know. Tune in to Friends the Table next week. And, you know. Stand by the people that you love! Uhhh, I don't know. [laughs] Have a happy holiday! Have a good weekend! Have a good month of November and December, and… yeah. That'll… that'll do it! Have a good evening, everybody!