PALISADE 28: Honesty and Integrity Pt. 1
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Opening Narration        1
Introduction        2
Game Starts — Brnine [0:10:38]        13
Chimera’s Lantern [0:25:53]        23
Keith’s New Character [0:35:07]        29
Thisbe [0:51:42]        46
Cori [1:01:20]        52
Thisbe and Cori [1:14:40]        61
Brnine’s Interview [1:24:20]        69
[1:42:02]        80
Blue Channel [1:57:34]        88
Keith’s Character Arrives [2:10:42]        104
Untapping Factions [2:22:35]        118
Opening Narration
Austin: PALISADE is a show about empire, revolution, settler colonialism, politics, religion, war, and the many consequences thereof. For a full list of content warnings, please check the episode description.
[“Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt begins playing]
Austin (as Narrator): Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, good Palisade. My name is Particular Emphasis, but you can call me Parti. This is— well, it would normally be where you hear the voice of Black. That’s Black Screen, a.k.a. Baldwin Home, a.k.a. [voice breaking a little] Big Bro, whose words brought so many of us into the mission. And a lot has happened lately, and uh, I guess he wanted me to have this slot? But I can't just get into it without paying service to him. Baldwin, we miss you. You're a hero of the movement. Rest in power. There will never be another.
Um, all right. It’s been a busy week, but let’s begin with a win. If Black were in, with worst undid, he’d kick this off with a celebration, a liquid demonstration. Raise a glass at last for unbound sun, sin undone by Phrygian. Clear sky forecast, their battle won. But I look around the base, and I'm not counting many smiles. Mounting losses, same old bosses, make victory feel like miles away. Those milder days, when the breeze makes easy afternoon’s opportunities evaporate. I wish I brought good news, but bad news can be useful, truthful, crucial, a wake up call as we snore, a note slid under door. They said, “Stop rhyming, music’s ours. We got rhythm in a snare.” But we don't care. We’ll slip off beat for a bar, get a drink, then beat you there. From the snare trap to the snare drum to that drum magazine. 
i mean, stop worrying about stacking L’s. Start thinking of what they could be, ‘cause L is a letter, and Black taught us better than to go quiet in hard times. I'll put them to use. Watch me unloose 80 L’s on these next lines. 
They’re fully illogical, unintellectual, Bilateral personnel. We’ll wait for a lull, say our farewells, then skillfully toll that bell. Rebel artillery pulling patrols through hell, got ‘em feeling pell-mell. They dilly-dally as we really rally ballistically with pockets full of shells. Realistically, colloquially, it’s all on the table. Think idyllically. In fact, let’s turn these L’s into W’s! They judged us, then led us right up to the ledge and then sentenced us to leap. But we’re wed to this cause, we’ll slam our wedge in their laws, and fight til we make ‘em weep. 
Love, Parti.
[song ends]
Introduction
Austin: Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast focused on critical worldbuilding, smart characterization, and fun interaction between good friends. I am your host, Austin Walker, and joining me today, Alicia Acampora.
Ali: Hi! My name is Alicia. You can still find me over at x.com at… [various groans] at twitter.com/ali_west, occasionally. 
Austin: Uh-huh.
Ali: I retweet a lot of stuffed animals over there now.
Janine: Ooh.
Dre: Ooh.
Ali: [laughs] You can listen to A More Civilized Age, which is another podcast, and you can find all the music featured on the show at notquitereal.bandcamp.com. 
Austin: Andrew Lee Swan.
Dre: Hey! You can find me on Twitter at @swandre3000. 
Austin: Keith Carberry.
Keith: Hi. You can find me on Twitter and Cohost at @KeithJCarberry. You can find the let’s plays that I do at youtube.com/RunButton. By the time you're hearing this, my 10 year let’s play of Digimon World [someone gasps] will probably be over.
Austin: You did it!
Sylvia: Oh my god!
Janine: Whoa!
Keith: We beat it the other day, yeah.
Austin: Congratulations.
Sylvia: Congratulations!
Keith: Thank you. Thank you. So, that’ll probably be up, and yeah, really it’s been over 10 years, which makes it art, I think.
Austin: Yeah, mm-hmm.
Janine: You finally got a Raichu. [Keith and Ali laugh]
Keith: Yeah, we finally got the Raichu. We’ve been working this whole time towards a Raichu, but Nintendo hates Raichu, so he wasn't in it.
Austin: He wasn't— yeah, uh-huh. You have to get the DLC.
Sylvia: Fucking Nintendo.
Keith: And hey, you could also listen to Media Club Plus, the Friends at the Table offshoot podcast where we watch and talk about a new thing every season, and this season is the first season, and it’s Hunter × Hunter, and it’s really good. The show and Hunter × Hunter, they’re both good. [Sylvia laughs] You can find that in your podcast app. You can go to mediaclub.plus, get the RSS feed, if you want to do it that way.
Austin: And you should. 
Keith: And you should.
Austin: It’s good to get an RSS feed.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: That’s one of the things that makes podcasts special.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You can get an RSS feed still. It still works.
Keith: Yeah, I'm pro RSS feed.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: You don't have to go to a Spotify. You don't have to go to one of these big box stores. 
Keith: I recommend…Spotify is not good for podcasts.
Austin: No, that’s what I'm saying. Stay off of it.
Dre: It’s not good for most things.
Keith: Spotify isn't good for anything, including music.
Austin: Well, you saw the Google thing, right? Google Podcasts is just being folded into YouTube Music?
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: So, l—
Keith: Oh, really?
Dre: Mm.
Austin: This is what I'm saying. Stay off big platforms. Just don't…
Keith: Stay off big platforms.
Austin: Get the RSS feed. 
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: I didn't even know Google Podcasts was a thing.
Keith: Google Podcasts— it really is just the Google podcast or RSS catcher.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: So I assume that they’ll just be adding a podcast folder and an Add RSS Feed functionality to YouTube Music. [whispering] That’s good for me. I use YouTube Music.
Austin: Uh-huh. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Keith: But I've been using BeyondPod for over a decade, I think. It’s the…I think I might be the only person still using BeyondPod.
Ali: Ooh.
Keith: Which has been defunct since 2017, but it’s the only one that works the way that I like. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Austin: Janine Hawkins?
Dre: That’s such a Keith endorsement.
Austin: Yeah, it’s the most Keith endorsement. Janine Hawkins is here.
Janine: My name’s Janine Hawkins. When I listen to podcasts, I use Spotify, but sometimes I'll also just listen to them on YouTube. [Austin laughs] I haven't had iTunes installed on a computer for…approaching 10 years. You can find me on Twitter and Cohost at @bleatingheart.
Austin: And Sylvi Bullet.
Sylvia: Hi, I'm Sylvia. You can find me everywhere at @sylvibullet. You can find the Friends at the Table Twitch channel at twitch.tv/friendsatthetable. Yeah?
Keith: Mm-hmm. 
Sylvia: No underscore?
Keith: Mm-hmm. Nope.
Sylvia: Cool.
Janine: I think so. I think it’s all one big…
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: @friends_table on TikTok, and also, I'm gonna say this: we've talked a lot about podcasts here today.
Austin: We have. [Ali gasps]
Sylvia: And you know what’s a nice thing to do for a podcast?
Austin: What’s that?
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Giving it five stars.
Austin: Oh.
Janine: Oh.
Sylvia: Which you should do for this one and also Media Club Plus, because it’d be nice.
Austin: You should.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: It would be nice to do that.
Janine: Rate and review.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Rate and review.
Keith: You can use iTunes installed on a desktop to do that. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: It’s true. 
Dre: Sure can.
Janine: Yeah, that’s true. You can't do that on Spotify.
Sylvia: Let’s get those numbers up, kids!
Janine: I should say: I'm not defending Spotify. I'm saying I'm so lazy. I'm so lazy? [Keith laughs]
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: And it’s my problem. It’s not anyone else’s problem.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: Oh, we’re at the dreaded 4.9 on Apple Podcasts. [Ali gasps]
Sylvia: Fix it.
Austin: Fix it!
Janine: Damn.
Austin: Fix it. Bring it up.
Keith: Uh, for Media Club Plus, pristine five stars.
Austin: Look at that. Love that for y'all.
Ali: Wow.
Janine: Wow.
Austin: Incredible. Uh, I am Austin Walker. You can follow me on Twitter at @austin_walker, on Cohost at @austin, where I've been trying to do more asks. I get an ask, and I answer it, you know? Asked and answered. That’s what that’s about.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Austin: We are playing Armour Astir: Advent by Brian Sovereign. Our goals today are to portray a world entrenched in conflict, to let the players make a difference, and to connect the magic and the mundane, and to play to find out what happens. Whew.
Keith: Oh, there’s one more thing.
Austin: Oh. Oh!
Keith: Friendsatthetable.shop.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Oh, yeah!
Sylvia: Right!
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: We can say it at the beginning of an episode now.
Keith: Did you listen to episode 25? Then, that’s great.
Sylvia: I sure hope so.
Keith: You should go to friendsatthetable.shop and buy the shirt that’s there or the mug or the stickers.
Janine: If they’re listening to this and hadn't…
Keith: I know, yeah.
Austin: If you're listening to this and haven't: weird, but okay. Hi.
Dre: Yeah. Hey, you do you.
Sylvia: You're in a car with someone, huh?
Austin: Yeah. [Ali laughs] How’s the drive going? Or you're on a bus, and someone is just playing this without headphones. 
Ali: Oh, don't do that.
Austin: Don't do that.
Dre: Aw.
Sylvia: I spy with my little eye something that is green. 
Ali: Wow.
Keith: That’s a tree.
Austin: Tree. Tree.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Can you get me a bottle of sprite and maybe, like, a bag of doritos? Thanks. 
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Uh, punch bug, no punch back. 
Sylvia: Ow!
Keith: Anyway, if that’s the case, you probably don't even care that you didn't hear episode 25, so you can go to friendsatthetable.shop anyway, buy that shirt. It’ll be just a weird thing to do. [Ali laughs] 
Austin: There’s shirts. There’s a mug. There’s stickers. Is that it?
Ali: And maybe more stuff, you know?
Austin: Right, more stuff in the future.
Janine: You could get a present for the person who’s in the— who’s making you listen to this for whatever reason.
Austin: Oh, good. Good gift idea.
Janine: Maybe this is a hint? They’re dropping you a hint is what’s happening.
Austin: The holidays are fast approaching.
Janine: Uh-huh. Fast approaching.
Austin: And the person in the car with you wants a t-shirt.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Or stickers.
Dre: Or a sweatshirt.
Austin: Yeah, mm-hmm.
Keith: Or an all over print backpack. Runbutton.shop.
Austin: Oh my— [Ali laughs]
Dre: Hell yeah.
Austin: You know what? All right. Do we want to talk about what’s streaming on Twitch on the weekend, on Sundays now? Does that— is it this— have we made that decision? Are we switching over by the time this goes out?
Janine: The vote was, like, very decisive.
Austin: Yeah, I thought so.
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: It’s going to— it’s gonna be Twilight Mirage. I think I'm taking this week off, [Austin: Okay.] because I still need to make the layout.
Austin: This week meaning the week that we’re recording, which is not the week this will go out.
Janine: The week of the recording. Yes, sorry, yeah. This is going up next Thursday, right?
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: It should, yes.
Janine: Or this Thursday?
Ali: No, no, no.
Janine: No, that’s tomorrow. 
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: No, that’s— okay.
Sylvia: There’s another faction thing to go up.
Janine: Right.
Austin: Yes, correct.
Janine: Then it will be this Sunday. We’ll be starting our watch parties for Twilight Mirage.
Ali: Woo!
Janine: So if you caught it the first time but it’s been several years, which is has been…
Austin: Uh-huh.
Dre: Mm-hmm. [Ali laughs quietly]
Janine: Then it’s a good— you know, because there’s, you know, stuff that comes up, that has been coming up.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: So if you want a little refresher, if you want to just hang out. Twilight Mirage has, I think it’s safe to say, become a fan favorite over the years. It’s definitely, like…I think it has a reputation of sweetening like wine. [Ali laughs] So.
Sylvia: Whoa.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Damn.
Janine: So I think it’s a good— I'm excited to revisit. As the person who runs these streams, I'm very excited to relisten to Twilight Mirage.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: It’s one of my favorite seasons, personally, so.
Austin: Very curious to see.
Keith: And it’ll be great to not have to decide what to do next for a long time. [Austin, Ali, and Janine laugh]
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Oh, you're saying this because Twilight Mirage is so long.
Keith: So long, yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: This is fair. This is fair.
Janine: It’s a long one.
Game Starts — Brnine [0:10:38]
Austin: All right. So, some stuff happened during the downtime. Er, during the conflict turn, rather. This is the downtime, of course. But I don't want to, like, get to it too quickly, because it develops over the next few weeks of play, right? Or of narrative, right? And I don't want to jump ahead that far for y'all, because we left this side of the game in the middle of it, in a real way, right? Routine and Brnine had been whisked away on a Pact of Free States ship, an Apostolosian or Columnar ship, into the dark. The party inside of the Chimera’s Lantern had managed to defeat the Witch in Glass’s Iconoclast kind of terrible corrupted version of the Figure’s mech and had helped the Figure transform into a new playbook, into a new form, which was the Wither. Is that right, Dre?
Dre: Yes.
Austin: Yes, okay. And as the Wither, the Figure met a new friend in the ghost of Gur Sevraq. Meanwhile, the stellar combustor turned off. Phrygian gave their life to shut down not just this stellar combustor but all of them forever in a rolling the boulder up the hill Sisyphian task, that we have not seen something like this since, of course, the finale of COUNTER/Weight when another character did something very similar, except kind of just for one long bad day. Where, I think, Phrygian, you're kind of in it for the…er, you're not here anymore, Phrygian. Keith.
Keith: Mm.
Austin: I think Phrygian is in it for the long haul, huh?
Keith: Yeah. Palisade is a fuck.
Austin: Palisade is a fuck. Thanks, Branched Man. Where do we want to come back in? Who— where’s this camera open up? Do we just jump to the jail cell that you're in, Brnine?
Ali: [laughs] You know, sure.
Dre: Yeah, I want to hear about this.
Ali: Hi.
Keith: It makes so much sense that you're in jail, but the ending of the episode, like, you got on the ship, and I don't even know if they said that they put you in jail?
Austin: No, it happens really quick, right?
Ali: I was in, like, a meeting.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: To start.
Austin: You got very quickly pulled and pushed aside, basically. Like, it’s one of those things where it’s like, “All right, we gotta get on the ship! Let’s hurry up!” and then, like, next thing you know, you were led down a few corridors, and then you were in a brig, you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Uh-huh. [gasps] Well—
Austin: And— go ahead.
Ali: I just mean that episode ended with me in a debriefing.
Austin: Right. You have been— 
Ali: So I did that, and then they were like, “Okay, jail please.”
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yes. 100%. [Ali laughs]
Janine: They Man of Medan-ing you? 
Keith: This way to your quarters.
Austin: Right. Exactly, and your quarters are—
Keith: Yeah. They’re eighths, actually.
Austin: Yeah, your quarters are in the brig of an Apostolosian ship. This is the ship the Stolen Cameo. It is a sort of stealth frigate that the Pact uses for missions like this. And, uh, you're not feeling good, Brnine.
Ali: Mm.
Austin: You’re out here with this peril Feverish.
Ali: Sure.
Austin: Which had been kind of…it didn't get worse, because you’d gotten that special juice injected into you [Ali laughs] by STEREOMA, by Cor’rina and Misericorde. That stays.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: You're…the feverishness actually stays. You have not gotten cooler. You didn't get hotter. You didn't get so hot that you died, but it has been a day or two now, and you're still feverish. And also, I need you to write down, as a second peril, [Ali: Oh.] Hollow Blood.
Sylvia: Oh?
Austin: It feels like your blood is hollow.
Dre: All right, all right.
Ali: Hmm!
Austin: There’s a sense of absence that moves through you with every beat of your heart.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: You need medical attention. This will get worse. Routine also needs medical attention. This will get worse. They have been bringing you food. You know this food. This is classic Apostolosian rations. You've gone down this path.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Which I'm curious about, like, how does it feel to be on an Apostolosian military vessel, years after you would have last been on one? Because presumably you went through— you're Apostolosian.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: Ethnically.
Ali: Yes.
Austin: You were born in Apostolos. You would have gone— Apostolosian culture is so military-focused. There is a compulsory service from a young age, so you would have spent some time on Apostolosian military vessels before going out on your own. How long has it been, and what’s it feel like to, like, be where you are and have these sense feelings?
Ali: Um, difficult, [laughs] I think is the broadest way to say that. I think, yeah, it’s tough, because Broun’s original story in PARTIZAN was that they had been…they were an engineer who sort of took this, like, job off planet to get away from [laughs] their culture and then were sort of stuck there, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: So just, like, even the idea of, like…this is a weird way to put this, but sometimes when I go back to California, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] and I walk into a pharmacy and I see that they sell liquor, [Austin: Uh-huh.] it freaks me out. [laughs] 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: And there are, like, very tiny things that are like, “Oh, I'm in a different place than I'm used to being in, but this is the place that I've been in,” you know what I mean? 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: So I think that, like, flavor is something that really draws that.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: I think that there’s, like, maybe, like, an alarm system or whatever.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Like, this is a ship or whatever, so it has, like, you know…
Austin: It’s like the alarm goes off to signal that one watch is ending and the next watch is beginning or whatever.
Ali: Right, yeah, and it’s like, “Oh, there’s that…” It’s like, [laughs] another weird analogy, but like, have you ever, like, set a song that you like or something?
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Or do you hear, like, somebody else’s ringtone that is your alarm on your phone, and you feel, like, that panic response?
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Ali: I feel like it’s a lot of that and not just to that sort of thing but, like, the cadence of the way that people walk [Austin: Mm-hmm.] or the sort of, like, exchanges that they make in the hallway, and it’s like, oh yeah, this is…it’s been a while, huh? But I don't know— I know that they’ve— I've played Brnine before as feeling there are parts of their culture that they felt attached to or felt like they wanted to perform in certain places.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: I think Valence’s death was a part of that, but I don't know that, like, on this military ship is the place where any of that warmth is.
Austin: Right.
Ali: So.
Austin: Speaking of Valence’s death, has Brnine had time to work through Phrygian’s death at all? It’s been two days, let’s say. [Ali laughs] How you feeling about that?
Ali: Um…
Austin: Or not death, but death. It’s death, right? Like, it’s…
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Phrygian is gone.
Ali: Right. Yeah. Phrygian is not, like, accessing the combustor chatroom [Austin: No.] to be like, “Yo, Phrygian.”
Austin: Right.
Ali: So yeah, that is a loss. I think it’s one of those things that Brnine probably doesn't feel like they’re thinking about, [Austin: Mm.] because they’re, like, “How am I gonna get out of here?” 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: “When am I gonna see my team again? I'm in jail.” But also, jail is a lot of downtime, so. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, they don't have you doing activities in there.
Ali: Sure don't, yeah.
Austin: They don't got you doing, like, Connect Four. You know what I mean? [Ali laughs] They didn't bring the puzzles out for you.
Ali: Yeah, that's a shame. So, yeah, I don't know. I think you feel lonely, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: And then you have a friend that just died.
Austin: Yeah. There is a moment after one of these kind of watch alarms goes, where it’s like it switching who’s on deck or whatever, that, you know, a pair of soldiers—one Apostolosian, one Columnar—come in, kind of flanking or kind of leading in the captain of this vessel, Captain Jev’ari Estano. Jev is a big bulky military commander who has kind of doubled down on that bulk by adding, like, gray and brown rock to their body. They’re like a rock elemental person. [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: Ooh.
Austin: Their skin is— not like the Figure.
Ali: Hunting. Or—
Austin: Or Hunting. Like, a little— I would say not like Hunting in that it’s not the concrete, like, stuff specifically. This is much more, like, little outcroppings of, like, jagged stones, but on top— so kind of like Hunting in that it’s on top of the skin, right?
Ali: Mm.
Austin: But it’s a different type of— it’s not this concrete that is a specific, like, made hard stonelike material. It is like natural outcroppings that you would find in, like, desert cliffs, you know? Browns and tans and, like, big eye ridges and, you know, elbows that are sharp now. [laughs quietly] And is in the Apostolosian military uniform. And jev is speaking to you. You know, hits the button on— I think that this is, like, a brig with glass walls, or something that’s clear at least. It’s probably not actually glass. It’s something much firmer than that. And it has, like, a speaker setup here, so there’s no…there’s no, like, hiding against the wall, you know what I mean? It’s glass walls. You don't have any privacy here. And Captain Estano says:
(as Estano): Captain Brnine. My understanding is that you do not feel so good. Is that correct?
Ali (as Brnine): Um, yeah, I think I'm still having some aftereffects.
Austin (as Estano): Yes. Agent, uh, Cor’rina said as much. Ahem.
Austin: And one of the two soldiers next to jev opens up, like, a briefcase and reveals what can only be a sort of antidote for this.
(as Estano): We have two asks, and for each ask that you agree to, we will give you access to the shot that you need to prevent what ails you from becoming what kills you. Do you have any questions?
Ali (as Brnine): No, the terms seem clear.
Austin (as Estano): We expect you to do what you're told, to answer our questions in good faith, and to remain in sight and in escort at all times. If you make any attempt to flee, to lose yourself in this vessel, to make any sort of movement of aggression, you will be put down. Agreed? 
Ali (as Brnine): How is good faith determined? 
Austin (as Estano): By the commanding officer, which for now is me.
Ali (as Brnine): Um, there are two antidotes there. What about Routine?
Austin (as Estano): Yes, one for you, and one for Routine.
Ali (as Brnine): Oh. Right, okay. I thought it was, like, a double dose.
Austin (as Estano): No.
Ali: Um, okay. I mean, that seems. Why would you say no to this, question mark?
Austin: Sure. [Ali laughs quietly] All right.
Ali: You know, okay, here’s— prison already asks this of you, right?
Austin: What’s that? Wait.
Ali: To always be seen and to not escape it? 
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Ali: So. [laughs] 
Austin: Yes, totally.
Ali: It feels like a win-win. I don't know. 
Austin: A win-win. Uh-huh. All right. [Ali laughs] And then I guess they just say, you know…
(as Estano): Fall in.
Austin: And the glass door opens, and one of the guards walks ahead, and one of them leaves a space for you to walk between the two guards and lets you come out of the cell. Routine is staying behind and watching, confused, as this happens.
Ali: Was there an option to, like, take the antidote but, like, just stay in the cell?
Austin: No!
Ali: Okay.
Austin: No, they’re gonna go make you do the things, and then you get your antidote. [Ali laughs quietly] They’re not gonna give it to you first.
Ali: Okay, sure.
Austin: You're gonna do this with perils.
Ali: Well, it’s just…just a couple questions, you know?
Austin: Yeah. [knowingly] Uh-huh, yeah, just a couple questions. [Ali laughs] You are led—
Keith: These people are being really unfair.
Austin: To a room. That you've never seen anything like it inside of an Apostolosian ship before. It is a…it’s very clear that this is some sort of command room, you know, or a briefing room that has been reworked. The big briefing table has been moved out or lowered into the floor. There is set dressing. There is a pair of, like, big comfy chairs set up. There is a camera drone hovering at one end of the room. There are, like, big ferns placed. [laughs] A little table with a glass of water poured already and a pitcher. Someone is sitting down in a chair, getting his makeup done by a Columnar makeup artist. He is human, I believe. And as you come in, he jumps up and rushes over to shake your hand. He’s in kind of a, uh…whatever this setting’s equivalent, I guess, is of, like, a smart broadcaster’s suit. You know, like, deeply inoffensive. Everything about this guy is kind of inoffensive. Like, he almost has a beard, but not quite, right? He almost has a swoopy fun haircut, like a businessman’s swoopy fun haircut, but not quite. Like, you wouldn't ever call it actually swoopy. He almost has blue eyes, but not quite. And he introduces himself. He goes:
(as man): Ah, it’s such an…honor? It’s such a— that’s not the right word. It’s such a moment to meet you. I'm Continental Countinghouse. You might know me from my work on “CENTER/Line”. [Ali and Dre laugh]
Sylvia: This motherfucker!
Austin: And we’ll come back to you in a second. 
Chimera’s Lantern [0:25:53]
Austin: Hey, Blue Channel, how’s it going? What’s going on over there? The situation that we had was that the Chimeric Cadent had directed you elsewhere inside of the moon. Had said, basically, “Hey, maybe you should go to the Chamber of Loyalty or to Bounty’s Cocoon,” one of these other places deep in the moon, because they were going to deal with the rest of the Ingrate. They had tied down the Ingrate with a sort of…not a rope, but a piece of material from this—
Janine: Some sort of kinetic material?
Austin: A sort of kinetic material that helped hold down the Ingrate via a golden beetle, a big golden beetle that flew around and helped tie it down, bind it [Dre laughs quietly] so that you could escape, right? So yes. I'll pull up that moon picture again. We haven't looked at that in a minute. And yeah, there’s Bounty’s Cocoon. There’s the Chamber of Loyalty. That’s probably the closest one, which is, you know. These are all basically, you know, gravesites. These are all mausoleums to Divines, and so there’s Loyalty’s right there. Maybe that’s a place to go? Very plush furniture in there to sit and grieve the death of Loyalty, I guess. So yeah, maybe you're in one of these other chambers. You tell me. Which includes, then, Figure, presumably.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: I think Figure is ready to go.
Austin: Mm. Cori and Thisbe?
Sylvia: Like, the thing about wanting to— I want to get— I think the way Cori’s looking at it is we should probably get somewhere safe, now that we know the sun’s not gonna blow up. But also, should we risk leaving this place when we don't know we’re gonna be able to, like, get back immediately or any time— or we’re not gonna be able to get back in the near future, if it’s still surrounded by…it’s Nidean forces mostly, right?
Austin: It is covered in Nidean forces, in fact.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: The Divine Consecration, you may recall, was digging towards the— trying to get into the body of the Lantern, and now, I think, fair to say, digging to try to uncover these dead Divines.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: You know, the Divine Consecration is interested— you know, I will say this outright, even if the player characters maybe don't know it exactly, but like, the Divine Consecration is a sort of armorer for the Nidean forces here on Palisade and even beyond, both a designer of new military equipment but also a literal, you know, smith, someone who makes stuff. And if these Divines want to be dead so bad, well, they can get put to work in another way, you know? There are other ways. You don't have to be alive to be put to work, and so there’s a sort of, like, digging as if for ore, you know? Digging deep.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: In order to get material. They can wake up and come fight with us again, or they can be put in the Divine Consecration’s forge.
Dre: Ick.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Sylvia: I mean, like, this seems like something we should talk— we should tell the rest of Millennium Break and the other…are we just calling ourselves Hexagon now? Are we reclaiming the H word? [Dre laughs]
Austin: I don't know. It might have gone the other way, right? Like, big Millennium Break thing in the sky. 
Sylvia: That’s true.
Austin: I think that there’s been a lot of conversation internally on the planet that’s like, “Shit, I don't know. You know, maybe besides just the people who came as Millennium Break, maybe Reunion and, you know, the two groups in Violet Cove, Devotion and the Dim Liturgy. Maybe the Shale Belt’s Concrete Front. Like, maybe we all just become Millennium Break. That way we all get a little bit of the pie, you know? [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: I love it. I love it.
Austin: Kind of, like, Brnine’s case seems to have been made, in some way, that Millennium Break will change people’s lives.
Dre: Mm.
Ali: Let’s go.
Austin: To your bigger point maybe, or your bigger interest, I'd say…
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: You might notice, here on the Authority and Divisions page—or over on the Authority and Divisions page—that Nideo has started a new Take Something That Isn't Theirs clock.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: That comes from Stel Nideo’s ability, which is, “Every turn, advance a four-step clock titled Take Something That Isn't Theirs.” That is kind of a big deal because of how vague it is. I suspect that that is about Consecration doing something here.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: But the thing that makes it so powerful is that you don't need to define what it is until it fills. It’s just called Take Something That Isn't Theirs, and that gives a lot of leeway to Art, but it does mean that this is a real threat, and it’s something that you could try to push back the way you push back, you know, enemy clocks or try to derail them or stop them, et cetera, right?
Sylvia: Can we talk about this sheet for a second?
Austin: [innocently] Yeah, sure. Uh-huh, what’s up? What’s going on?
Sylvia: Maybe I missed…maybe this has been here for a while, and I missed it, but what’s that one underneath Alert?
Austin: What’s that? What do you mean? Uh, that one?
Sylvia: The one that says, “Revive Motion”?
Austin: Yeah. What’s up? [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Hey, what?
Austin: You might see the one above that one, or two above that one, in fact. Let me move the Alert one down, because it doesn't— it has nothing to do with the Frontier Syndicate.
Sylvia: Okay, cool.
Austin: Do you see the one that says Harvest the Fundament Nodes?
Sylvia: Yeah, that was also done, huh?
Austin: Yeah, that finished. They got the last ones.
Ali: Mm.
Austin: Occam Olio came in big again, random grunt for the Frontier Syndicate. 
Ali: Real MVP.
Austin: Like, truly getting W’s. [Dre laughs]
Ali: Employee of the month.
Dre: Look at that guy go.
Austin: Absolutely employee of the month. Y'all gotta get that guy. [Ali laughs] Y'all gotta see— put out some feelers. You know, see, maybe in the off season, you could do a trade or something. I don't know. [Ali laughs] Getting W’s, finished getting Harvest the Fundament Nodes, which, as a reminder, in the first arc of the season, the Fundament Nodes were the things that were, like, deep inside of the body of Palisade the planet, which were—
Keith: That was what that first thing was about, down there.
Austin: Yes. Correct, was one of those. The rest of— the whole of the Bilateral Intercession was trying to find out if those existed. They did, but kind of got scared off by the Affliction that was down there, but the Frontier Syndicate did not. Exanceaster March has a dream, and that dream is to revive Motion, and, you know, immediately enslave her. Classic.
Keith: For the other team.
Austin: Say it again?
Keith: For the other team. Revive Motion for…
Austin: Right, right, for the other team, yeah. Not for…right, because Motion, of course, was a member of the Pact of Necessary Venture. But as you learned in the big last arc, it seems like the Divine Arbitrage has ways of compelling loyalty, so who knows? Who knows what would cost to get— and also, maybe Motion just would decide to flip teams. You know, Divines. Divines are weird, so. But reviving Motion is the goal, and the way that— what that looks like is a sudden popping up, across settlements around the planet of Palisade, of these new factories, these big smokestack factories that, um…they’re like inverted smoke— the smokestacks are smokestacks, right? But the smoke is inverted. It’s going— it’s like it’s coalescing from the clear blue sky and turning into smoke and being siphoned into these smokestacks. And also, the way it looks—dark black smoke—is, like, messed up. It’s like, if you get too close to it, it’s low poly. It’s like we didn't use enough assets. We didn't use enough polys. Like, there’s not enough corners for it to be a nice round curve on the edge of the big black smoke cloud. It’s, like, blocky. It’s like Minecraft smoke, you know?
Sylvia: Hmm.
Austin: And it’s being sucked into these factories, and this is happening on the planet, and you don't know that it’s happening, to be clear. This is a thing that— well, you don't know that that’s happening, right? Maybe someone somewhere is beginning to try to put the pieces together. Keith, is that true? Is someone somewhere trying to put the pieces together?
Keith: Someone somewhere is trying to put the pieces together. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Maybe on the streets of City City?
Keith: Maybe on the streets of City City.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Austin: Someone with old connections to the PMC that serves as the freelance police department here?
Keith: And new connections to the rebellion and to a certain pirate fleet.
Austin: To a pirate fleet, you say? Who’s your new character?
Keith’s New Character [0:35:07]
Keith: My new character is Eclectic Opposition.
Ali: Wow.
Keith: The ex-mole PMC, current or I guess former pirate crew, current private eye.
Dre: Such an impressive job list.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Some people got a lot of jobs.
Austin: And whose crew are you on?
Dre: [laughs quietly] You're telling me, bud.
Austin: Yeah, fuck. [laughs] 
Keith: Eclectic was a member of Leap’s crew before being sort of recruited to investigate the Motion factories by Leap, who had been sort of piecing together this mystery from, like, letters and journals from, uh, people that encountered his piracy over the months.
Austin: It’s like that train robbery in the first act of Red Dead II, where you go in and you're like, “Damn, there’s all these letters about industry happening!” [Keith laughs quietly] and instead of not caring about it, Leap and Leap’s crew was like, “Now, wait a second. There might be something—”
Keith: “Who’s from Palisade here?” 
Austin: [laughs] Yeah, news from Palisade, exactly.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: They’re building what? What is it they’re building?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: I don't like seeing the word Motion used so many times in a row.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: This page just says “Motion Motion Motion Motion,” with an exclamation point between each word. 
Keith: [laughs quietly] These people are freaks! [Sylvia and Dre laugh]
Austin: So, you're playing the Investigator.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Which is a class from another one of the kind of— I always hate to say “fan-made playbooks,” because it sounds so diminishing, but like, the…is there a better word?
Keith: Hey, not diminishing. We keep using them.
Austin: Eh, you know what? Absolutely. And in fact, is this the same…is this the same one that has Thisbe’s?
Keith: No, this is not— this is the same one that has the Incandescent, not the same one that has the Miscreated. Final Mission.
Austin: Final Mission.
Keith: That’s what it’s called.
Austin: Final Mission, which you…let me get the link. Let me get the link up. Here we go.
Keith: 106th Astir Squadron, Codename: The Final Mission.
Austin: The Final Mission, yeah, so you can get this at Y-U-R-I-R, yurir.itch.io. 106th Astir Squadron #3 — The Final Mission. There are a bunch of other cool playbooks in here, but you're the Investigator.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Do you want to read the little description of it here?
Keith: “There’s something dark bubbling underneath the surface of everything, a mystery to investigate and solve. In times like these, investigators are needed more than ever to connect the dots and reveal the angles of it all.”
Austin: Which I think is true, right? Between the stuff that’s going on here with the Frontier Syndicate and March trying to revive Motion, but even some of the bigger picture stuff around the Divine Arbitrage, around Mustard Red. I think we’ve got some mysteries that might need solving in our b-plots, and so, yeah, this is another support character. This is a character focused on an investigation. So you, in fact, have a move that lets you start with a six segment investigation clock, correct?
Keith: Yep, and when that investigation clock completes, I can remove three ticks from Authority schemes that I'm aware of.
Austin: There you go.
Sylvia: Ooh.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Dre: Ooh.
Austin: Which is fun, because it’s not even just from an Authority scheme, right? 
Keith: Right, yeah.
Austin: You get ‘em from Authority schemes, period, and then you can start a new clock or redefine your current one as you dig deeper. And then, yeah, it’s another support class, which means it has a b-plot thing, and it has a special b-plot that gives you bonus one more hold during the b-plot to do some other investigation type stuff, right?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Austin: What’s—
Keith: I can advance a clock but complicate things for myself, or I can relay information to other players, giving them advantage when they act on it.
Austin: Right. As you walk down the streets of City City—you know, looking up at Chimera’s Lantern in the night above, maybe, in this moment, get a good transition shot—what do we see? What’s Eclectic Opposition— I mean, that sounds like a Delegate name, because Opposition.
Keith: It is a Delegate name, yep.
Austin: So, you are a Delegate.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, he’s a Delegate.
Austin: What do you look like? Yeah, he/him pronouns on Eclectic?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: And, so, we’ve talked a lot about— I think you specifically mentioned Binary Domain robots.
Dre: Ah.
Austin: Sounds like me. [Dre laughs]
Keith: As how the Delegate bodies look. That also reminded me of the I, Robot movie robots.
Austin: Sure, yeah.
Keith: They have, I think, a bit more of a face. Eclectic has that same sort of look but has, like, a different sort of coloration. They have that sort of eggshell color, but Eclectic looks like a teapot that I own. It’s a wood-fired teapot. I have a link to it.
Austin: Very good, Keith. [laughs quietly]
Keith: It’s sort of from that eggshell color all the way to a toasted marshmallow color, and it’s just sort of in this kind of random pattern. This is my favorite teapot that I own. 
Sylvia: Oh, this is great.
Austin: This is really good.
Keith: He’s wearing formal black pants, a white shirt and a tie, and a black sequined poncho instead of a jacket.
Austin: Wait, one more time? A black what?
Keith: Sequined poncho? [Ali laughs quietly]
Austin: A black sequined poncho.
Keith: Yeah. Like a cape. Looks maybe like a half cape, but yeah, like a poncho.
Dre: Yeah. No, it’s good for blending in and doing undercover work.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Love it. This is good.
Ali: You don't see a lot of sequined ponchos.
Keith: You don't see a lot of sequined ponchos.
Austin: Detectives don't wear enough sequined ponchos. [laughs quietly] 
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: I keep saying this. Man, shoutout to cape squad.
Austin: Oh, capes are up right now, huh?
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Who else has— how many people have capes right now?
Dre: Me!
Keith: You've got a cape. Is there a third cape?
Janine: Thisbe has a cape.
Austin: Thisbe has a cape. [Ali gasps]
Keith: Thisbe has a cape! Look at that.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: And I'm going back and forth on this, but nice flat cap, nice scally cap.
Austin: Oh, yeah.
Ali: Whoa! Okay.
Austin: Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I love this. I love this. There’s that robot detective from, uh, World Flipper who I think has one of those on.
Keith: World Flipper, World Flipper…
Austin: Maybe not. Maybe that’s just the shape of— it’s just the shape of his head. It’s not…this is Regis. He’s a good robot detective. One second. Let me…
Keith: Oh! I feel like I've seen this guy before.
Austin: He’s great.
Keith: It is just the shape of his head, but it is shaped kind of like a flat cap, yeah.
Austin: Hey, why is his entry on Sexypedia? [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Why is it? Why wouldn't it be?
Keith: Oh, you know. Everyone knows why.
Austin: You know what? I do know why.
Janine: I'm also thinking of Screwllum.
Austin: Excuse— [laughs] I hardly—
Sylvia: Oh. 
Keith: Screwllum… [Ali laughs] 
Dre: Yeah, from Honkai: Star Rail, yes.
Janine: Yeah, from Honkai: Star Rail.
Keith: Oh…
Sylvia: Sexypedia, I'm not gonna get into it too much, it is a Wikipedia of Tumblr Sexymen, is specifically…
Austin: Of course it is.
Ali: Sure, okay, okay. Yeah.
Janine: Sure.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Keith, I got bad news.
Keith: What’s up?
Sylvia: Oh, no, absolutely.
Austin: You’ve made a Tumblr Sexyman. [laughs] You're not quite Onceler tier, but…
Ali: Not the first time.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: No, not the first time.
Ali: [laughs] Not the first time.
Keith: Oh, I mean, well, what’s Onceler tier? I mean, is there even— [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: Lye Lychen.
Austin: [sighs] Screwllum is a very funny name.
Keith: I like a little bit of a Onceler.
Austin: Sorry, what? Hmm? 
Janine: Yeah, I don't understand why they called him that.
Austin: Why they call him Onceler?
Sylvia: Or Screw—
Janine: No, Screwllum.
Austin: Oh. [laughs] 
Keith: Because he’s full of screws! Because he’s all screwed together!
Dre: He is a robot man, so.
Austin: He is a robot. He’s cool. I like him. He’s good. I hadn't seen him before.
Dre: Aah!
Austin: Spoken like someone who just saw something you were not ready to see. [Janine laughs] We’re gonna keep on moving. I love this.
Keith: Ooh, he’s number 76 of Genius Society but led the rebellion against Genius Society member number 27.
Austin: Oh. So—
Ali: Keith, can I—
Austin: Go ahead.
Ali: Can I ask a question about Eclectic?
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Does he smoke…? [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Period. The end. Question mark. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Does he have a…
Ali: Cool detective. Important question.
Keith: Does he have a mouth that works?
Ali: Oh.
Austin: Oh. Tell me.
Keith: Is, like, the second—
Janine: He doesn't need a mouth that works. He just needs, like, a smoke hole.
Ali: Or is it like a funny vape pen situation? [laughs] 
Keith: Oh, that’s really fun. Yeah, it’s a…
Janine: One of his little fingers is a vape pen.
Keith: No, it’s gotta be real. It’s gotta be real.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: It’s real.
Ali: Okay. Okay.
Keith: It’s real, and yes, he smokes.
Austin: Rolls his own cigarettes. 
Keith: Yeah, rolls his own cigarettes.
Ali: All right. I just— okay.
Keith: Super dexterous little robot fingers.
Janine: What’s in the cigarettes?
Austin: Doesn't have lungs.
Keith: No.
Austin: Right. But the process is good.
Janine: It’s aesthetic.
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Yeah. Love this. Picked up some—
Keith: It’s got electrons in it.
Austin: I was gonna say, yeah, does it have something in it? Did you pick up some sort of Equiaxed taste module for smoking from Leap? [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: You just, like—
Keith: Taste module! [laughs] You told me specifically…
Austin: I did. We were talking about this.
Keith: Not to be too…
Austin: We were like, “We can't just do the Equiaxed part two.”
Keith: Yeah. Well, because it’s hard to do a Delegate, because they’re close to Branched and close to Equiaxed.
Austin: They’re, like, in between the two in an interesting way, right?
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: As a reminder for people who don't necessarily remember, which is fine, the Delegates are…I always talk about them as, like, beings who have been shaved off of a Divine, and I mean that really literally, right? Like, Eclectic Opposition— well, not really literally, but I do mean that the absence is real. The absence suggested by the idea of being carved out of something is real. So, like, Eclectic Opposition, you, Keith. If you're Eclectic Opposition—and you don't necessarily have to be Eclectic in the way that you or I might think of the term, though I suspect Eclectic will be that. [Sylvia laughs quietly] Eclecticness is the raw material that formed you and was removed [Keith: Mm-hmm.] from the Divine Opposition, who is somewhere on Palisade, today.
Keith: You're saying that Divines have so much— they have, like, thousands of people’s worth of personality in them. 
Austin: I think everybody has a little eclecticness in them. How much is I don't know, right? 
Keith: But how many Delegates can you make from one Divine? That’s a lot of personality in one thing.
Austin: You can make a lot of Delegates.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: But as you do, those qualities seem to diminish in the Divine. The Divine, who is being held captive somewhere on this planet and has been tortured for millennia.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: And I don't know how— you know, we’ll get into it a little bit, right? Because I think different Delegates feel different ways about that. Some of them really want to embody the Divine that they’re from, you know? Some of them, you know, I think I kind of…there’s friction there, you know? They don't like the sense that they’re, you know, bottled in by whatever Divine name they carry. They want to be more than that, or less than that, right? They don't want the high expectations. 
And also, they have been historically slaves. Like, one of the things that came out of this that we talked about was, like, before the Principality came back five years ago or a few years ago, the Delegates had effectively lived on a parole system where they had to go to a government office to check in every month as part of the Fabreal Duchy, and I think as part of that probably also were being tracked very closely. There was probably a very easy way for you to be punished physically and also a huge entire, you know, cultural machine meant to, you know, mentally push you towards obedience or your people towards obedience. And then, in your lifetime and the lifetime before, in the generation before you and into your lifetime, there was the first successful— I mean, maybe not the first successful one. There was a successful revolution, and it has not yet been put down. Presumably, there have been other opportunities or other attempts to do that, and the duchy has put those attempts down, historically.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Austin: And so, so yeah. Right now, there is one, Reunion. It’s operated by August Righteousness up in the caldera at the north of the planet. You know, obviously Jade Kill is led by that Delegate. I don't know that you have connections to that group in any way. I think that you, you know, from what you've told me, are a Delegate who—
Keith: Uh, I would have left before that.
Austin: Yes, or right around…it would have been around the same time, because the connection with Millennium Break happened during the Wagon Wheel game, [Keith: Yeah.] and that’s when you would have had the opportunity to leave and go join Leap’s crew, right?
Keith: Sure. Yeah.
Austin: At the end of that, so. Or around that time, let’s say.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: So. Welcome, Eclectic. Do you want to start— your clock is started already. “Motion Weird Factories,” it says.
Keith: I got Motion— I would love to— you know, I think I will get a description for this.
Austin: Yes.
Keith: There’s a description box.
Austin: Yes.
Keith: As we maybe talk a little bit more about it, but I do have the Motion Weird Factories title to my clock here, yeah.
Austin: Absolutely. Sheet stuff in general. Worth saying here that everyone but you is tapped again.
Keith: Right.
Austin: Bad news.
Dre: Mm…
Sylvia: Ah…
Keith: I have a question about Figure.
Austin: Yeah, sure.
Keith: Figure has five out of six on [Austin: Yes.] their gravity clock with Phrygian.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And that gravity clock is “I admire Phrygian’s ability to freely question authority.”
Austin: [laughs quietly] That would've filled, I think.
Keith: I would love to get a level here, for— is that possible? [Dre laughs] 
Austin: I think that—
Keith: Can we get that to six?
Austin: Can we get that— yeah, well, the actual thing that’s funny is, one—
Sylvia: Can we get my homie, Big Figure, a level, please? [Ali laughs]
Austin: I think that that would have filled in the last thing, for sure.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. It so literally happened.
Austin: It so literally happened, 100%.
Janine: I truly thought that Keith was saying: can he get a level for his new character from that, [Keith laughs] and I was about to be like, “Come on!” [Janine and Austin laugh]
Dre: I just looked up…
Sylvia: I also think we should do that. [Ali laughs]
Austin: What you could do, if you really wanted to rules lawyer it, you could… [Austin and Dre laugh] You could have gotten it at the end of the last session, then chosen the advanced level up option, “Choose a new playbook. Keep what moves you and your director agree are—” sorry, no. “Choose a new character. Your old one retires from play according to their hooks and passes one of their moves onto your new one.”
Keith: Mm.
Austin: So you could inherit a Phrygian move, [Keith: Yeah.] if it made sense.
Keith: No, an older Figure move.
Austin: No, no, no, Figure— no.
Sylvia: No, this would be for you.
Austin: No, this is for you! I'm saying if we wanted to rules lawyer you—
Keith: Oh! Oh, right, because it fills both at once.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: It fills both at once, yeah. [Ali laughs]
Janine: This guy can also turn into a room.
Keith: See, I wasn't even thinking of that.
Austin: Yeah. [laughs]
Keith: I was— 
Austin: I mean, but I just—
Keith: This was purely to get Dre a level.
Austin: Yes, and I think that that’s probably the right thing to do here, because looking at your moves, none of these are things that—
Sylvia: Come on, To Thine Own Self Be Clock? [Ali laughs]
Austin: You inherited— no, because it only— it happens with Ascendant stuff.
Sylvia: No, it makes no sense. [laughs] 
Keith: Yeah, it makes— yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Unless you're getting weird Divine powers every time you— and also, like, we want a character—
Keith: And I don't have a move that would make sense to pass on.
Austin: No. No, unfortunately. You have, um…
Keith: I mean, The Beast Within. I pass on… [laughs] 
Austin: When the War Ends. You pass on… [laughs] 
Keith: Yeah. [laughs] 
Austin: No.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Austin: No.
Sylvia: Just constant doomed characters.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh. No, I think— but yeah, I think that this advances for Figure. Figure, I think you should go ahead and hit that gravity clock at six. Well, I mean, the thing that’s actually— wait a second. The thing— wait, wait, wait, wait. Is that even what happens? Do you even get a level at that, or is it just advance? Is this just a waste of our time? Have we all just been wrong? One second. Are we confusing hooks and…?
Sylvia: No, it…
Keith: No, no, because it’s—
Austin: It is with gravity clocks?
Keith: Any of those gravity clocks, yeah.
Austin: Yes, it is. Complete your gravity clock. 
Sylvia: Fill a gravity clock.
Austin: You're right, yes.
Keith: To advance, fill a gravity clock. Yeah. 
Austin: Okay, okay, okay.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: So yeah, go ahead. Take another cool move.
Keith: Yeah, so that gravity levels up right as Phrygian dies.
Austin: Yeah, you see the big Millennium Break logo, and it goes “ding!” as you get a level up. [laughs quietly]
Keith: Yeah. But that’s fine. You're allowed to have relationships with people that are dead.
Austin: That’s true.
Sylvia: Damn!
Austin: Makes you think.
Dre: It’s true.
Austin: Cool. Though I do think, in this moment, we probably want to open up that gravity clock for…
Keith: Right. In this case, the relationship was very brief. [Dre and Keith laugh]
Austin: I mean…I mean…
Keith: Just long enough to level up.
Thisbe [0:51:42]
Austin: Yeah. Let’s come back down to the Chimeric Cadent— or the Chimeric moon crew.
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Word does presumably get to you. I mean, you're leaving. It feels like you're leaving, correct?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: For now, at least? Maybe you'll come back and deal with the Divine Consecration in the future, maybe in the next arc, who could say?
Janine: I, like, wanted to start a proj— I was kind of— so, I forgot that Brnine wasn't gonna be around, so I was like, “Oh, I'll do a scene with Brnine,” and then was like, “Ah, fuck.” So I might have another thing to do instead?
Austin: Okay.
Janine: Which is, I feel like— so, Thisbe, I think, looking around at this place, I think she’s having the thought of, like, why does this feel like such a solitary project?
Austin: Mm.
Janine: Because it’s clearly a thing that a lot of Divines wanted, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: And she’s coming at this from a perspective of, like, you know, she’s been doing a lot of stuff on her own, not as a unit of robots, which was what she was originally supposed to be doing.
Austin: Right.
Janine: But like, this idea of, like, well, if someone else…if other people want this, like, they should be here. Or if other people even believe that this is good, then shouldn't they also be protecting it?
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Like, why is it just sitting here vulnerable to fucking Nideo?
Austin: Right.
Janine: And it’s just, like, a matter of time until they break through and wrench all of these Divines back into service? So, I think there is maybe, like…maybe while everyone is, like, packing up or something like that, I think there’s a moment where Thisbe just sort of, like, goes for a walk, you know?
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: And I can imagine her sort of maybe being drawn towards, like, the Court of Dissent or Barricade’s Rib or something, and she is sort of ruminating on, like, this seems wrong. Like, there has to be something…there has to be something that can be done, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: But has this concept of herself as like…Thisbe always kind of thought of herself as a small part of things, but it’s, I imagine, very hard to be somewhere like this [Austin: Yeah.] and not feel that even more.
Austin: Yeah. The Barricade’s Rib image, I think, is really good. It is this place that’s like the whole place is lined with coral. You know, purple and blue and, you know, bright bright colors, even in this dark place. And now that you are here, it is giving way to you, or it’s actually, like, soft to the touch. I mean, I don't know what Thisbe’s touch sensors are, right? But you can see that there are, like…you see someone’s rifle that was dropped here, probably one of the Nidean soldiers’, and it’s been rusted and eroded by the coral somehow. But with you, it is both a solitary lonely place, but Barricade, or the rib of Barricade here, also there is a real presence in the way that you might find in the depths of a forest, right? Or in an underwater, you know…underwater in a coral forest, you know? Where it’s just like, wow, there is so much.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: It’s overflowing with a type of life, even if it wants to retreat from the rest of the galaxy and hide itself away here in this very isolated and scared way. Which I really like thinking about Thisbe walking through that space.
Janine: Hmm.
Austin: What do you think that project is?
Janine: I wonder if…
Austin: Also, wait, is this one of your scenes? We need to mark our scenes and stuff.
Janine: Yes. I mean, it has to be. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Because I'm starting a…you know, a thing.
Austin: Yes, yes, yes.
Janine: I wonder if it’s a thing of, like…Thisbe thinking broadly about, like, how do you communicate? You know? 
Austin: Mm.
Janine: How do you broadcast? What are different ways that people send and receive information?
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Is there a way to put a call out?
Austin: Right.
Janine: Like, is there a way to…is there a way to contact Divines? Or is there a way to, like… [laughs quietly] All the metaphors I have in my head are goofy. 
Austin: [crosstalk] What’s your favorite one?
Janine: It’s stuff like, well, whales in the ocean. The ocean is super loud to them, because they hear all of the shit from everywhere.
Austin: Mm.
Janine: Like, how do you cut through that noise [Austin: Right.] to get an important message across?
Austin: Right. Which even…which is, like, part of the thing we’ve never really talked about in relation to Millennium Break. Like, there’s never been…Millennium Break stole a Divine once but otherwise has never, like…there aren't Divine members of Millennium Break.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: As far as we know, right? Am I forgetting— well, I guess that’s not true. Fealty is, right? But there have not been more, and Fealty’s only a new— Fealty’s even really just here for Palisade more than— and the Mirage. Has not…you know, I would have to defer a little bit, maybe, to Art and Jack on this one, but I don't know if they’ve, like, sewn the Millennium Break, you know, patch on their jacket yet, so to speak. Though maybe, again, after this last arc, they have. But yeah, that’s an untapped…an unquestioned thing. Are there Divines out there who are sympathetic or who would even just want to leave what they’re doing now and go elsewhere?
Janine: Yeah. And like, that’s the thing, is I think Thisbe’s sort of in a unique position where, like, she doesn't think of them as gods [Austin: Right.] or as, like, these things that are beyond…you know, she…I think her parallel might be, like, “Well, I am to them what Mow is to me,” maybe.
Austin: Sure.
Janine: Where, you know, that’s still complicated and…
Austin: Yeah, but I get what you mean.
Janine: You know, Thisbe has her own baggage there.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: But, you know, to her, it is more like, well, this isn't a force that is beyond me. It’s like, this is a force that is bigger and stronger than me, [Austin: Right.] but like, why couldn't I do something for them?
Austin: Right.
Janine: Like, why would that be silly? Why would that be out of reach?
Austin: Yeah. I like this. I don't— I'm curious what the clock is.
Janine: Maybe it’s like…uh, like research into, like, how do you…is there, like, situations where Divines have talked amongst each other outside of human interference?
Austin: Sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That’s interesting. I think you could just use Hallways or Listening Posts for this. You are literally walking through hallways. You are literally overhearing something. It’s just something kind of affective instead of, like, words, you know? And so, yeah, you can start a long term project here, using Hallways and Listening Posts. And so, other people who want to spend tokens can do the other Hallways and Listening Posts things, if they want to, which are “Overhear something as above. Discuss how this info will factor into the sortie,” which I don't…I guess, like, have the Divines talked about things, or can you get a message to the Divines, is, I guess, kind of info. Or, like, Divines want to rest. Some Divines want to rest is, I guess, the info, right? Or want out of the Principality is the info being communicated here. “Have a heated conversation with someone you have gravity with, advancing it,” or “barge in on whoever was overheard, causing trouble for someone involved.” So yeah, if Figure or Cori want to do any of those things, that is also allowed.
Sylvia: I think I'm good?
Austin: No heated conversations?
Sylvia: I mean…
Austin: No, fair, fair.
Sylvia: About— you want to— “grr, you want to communicate with something.” I don't know.
Dre: Did you want to talk to Gur?
Sylvia: No. Boo.
Austin: You don't know— did you tell anybody that Gur is—? Are you— what are you—
Dre: I don't think I've had the chance to yet.
Austin: No. I don't think so.
Sylvia: I was saying “G-R-R,” not “G-U-R.”
Austin: Oh.
Sylvia: Just to be clear.
Austin: Got it. Grrrr.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Not Gur.
Keith: It’s gonna get confusing. We’ll have to switch to argh. [Sylvia sighs] Especially with a pirate on the crew. That’ll help.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Will it, or will it make things more confusing?
Keith: Uh, no. No, he’ll be into it.
Sylvia: Okay, sick. [Austin laughs quietly] Yeah. Figure, do you want to spend any tokens here?
Dre: No, I'm good.
Austin: All right. Well, there’s our first downtime action. And then, yeah, maybe you group back up with Hunting. Hunting does a pickup. You get out of here and head for safe space. Anybody else have a scene to do maybe just on the Blue Channel before we hop back over to Brnine or Eclectic?
Dre: Hmm.
Cori [1:01:20]
Sylvia: So, I, like, know the result I'm trying to get of my downtime move.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Sylvia: But I'm still figuring out how to frame it, and maybe we can…like, talk it out and figure it out?
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I'm looking to resolve this peril that I have, [Austin: Right.] which is Severed.
Austin: Mm-hmm. 
Sylvia: But it’s not a very— it’s not literal.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: And maybe this is one of those things where it’s like I gotta live with it.
Austin: Well, I think maybe being in a temple of Divines might’ve been the place to try to do this, actually.
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Right? Like, maybe before you leave. Are you— you tell me, because, so, you have Severed. It’s a peril that is about being severed from Devotion in some way, right? Who you've broken one of your tenets with, correct?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Which one is the one that was broken? I guess now it’s— you've changed it to “I need to be stronger, no matter what,” right?
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, the one that I got rid of…
Austin: It was “You are a beacon,” is the one that you changed.
Sylvia: Yes, it was.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Because I didn't go build a church in…
Austin: Yes, yes.
Sylvia: [sighs] The mission we were supposed to do and didn't.
Austin: So yeah, I mean, what do you feel like…have you ever had moments before— has Cori ever had moments where she has felt distant from Devotion and then tried to repair that distance?
Sylvia: I think this is different than most of the run-of-the-mill ones, because this isn't like…with Cori, she was raised so, like, within the cult and within the, like, culture of Devotion and stuff [Austin: Mm-hmm.] that, like, the distance she got from Devotion was usually just stuff like, “Oh, I'm sick of doing, like, such-and-such ceremonial stuff.”
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Or like whatever, like, routine…not the person.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Sylvia: The, you know, religious routine that, like, she’d have to do back home or whatever. And this is an actual, like, crisis of faith that she’s having.
Austin: Yeah. I think maybe being in the Chamber of Loyalty presents an opportunity for you, right?
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: This is a place that has, at its heart…I mean, I don't know if you remember Loyalty in COUNTER/Weight, but like, there were real, like, with all of the weight and baggage of this, like, oh, Kobus, the…
Sylvia: Oh, yeah!
Austin: The Elect— nope, that’s wrong. The Candidate of Loyalty had lots of, like…you know, there were lots of, like, child in the womb vibes.
Sylvia: Yeah, we went real womb crazy with that one.
Austin: We went real womb…we were just really womb wild that season.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Once again, Friends at the Table going womb wild.
Austin: Uh-huh. [Dre groans] Uh, not this for the episode title, Ali. I just want to make a note: future Ali, we’re not calling this anything to do with that. [Sylvia laughs quietly] But I do think that that idea of, like, the connection between someone and their Divine is really prevalent in that space. And so maybe here it’s like, you could take one— you could just take an Infirmary scene here, right?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: But I do think that there is something special happening here, which is that, like, does Cori open herself up to that sort of connection in this place? And then what’s that feel like?
Sylvia: So, I think that seeing that stuff, specifically the Loyalty stuff, is definitely like, oh, this is the potential that comes when someone is, like, completely intertwined with their Divine, and there’s, like, something aspirational about that.
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Where it’s like, even if I'm sort of, like, struggling with the tenets that I've been given, [Austin: Yeah.] I can still, like…still, if I give myself to this, I can become, like, more than just a pilot, more than just a person.
Austin: Yeah. I mean, I think the thing is— are you gonna spend your action here on this?
Sylvia: I am gonna spend my action here.
Austin: So, I think that there’s a— so, the actual thing of course says, you know, you clear a peril of mechanical or physical origin [Sylvia: Mm-hmm.] and frame a short scene around this. And then, during the scene, anyone can spend a token to clear a peril or swap a part; help someone you have gravity with, advancing it; start or advance a long term project, describing what your work looks like; or take your altar and rush ahead into the sortie, which we don't know what that is yet, so don't do that one please, thank you, bye. But what I think happens here is you once again connect to a strange version of Devotion.
Sylvia: Oh, let’s go!
Austin: You connect to something deeply sad. Here you are, in a place of great rest, a place where these Divines which were not given a choice whether or not the— or maybe they were given a choice and failed to stop the rise of the Divine Principality, or they were casualties of the early days of it or simply fled it because they’d prefer to be here in the ground than be working towards the ends of the Divine Principality, or they just needed a break. They just needed— they were tired. Devotion is tired. Your Devotion never gets tired. And so I want you to loosen your tenet of “You are a shield. Leave none undefended while you still stand.” And, you know, I can't— it is, again, we’re in this realm of affect. We’re in this realm of, like, undercurrent emotion, pre-linguistic in some way or maybe not pre-linguistic but adjacent to it, where there’s just this weight, this “I just want to put the shield down,” or a resignation, “I have put the shield down,” or an inability, “The shield was taken from me. I can't protect people anymore.” Not clear. But that doesn't feel true to the Devotion who you have now briefly reconnected to. And I think, after this moment passes, you're also not severed from the Devotion that you know more familiarly.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: And maybe that feels like your Devotion getting, you know, their confidence back, in a weird way, right? 
Sylvia: There is…I think there’s something about it where it’s like, this is the first time Devotion’s ever felt, like, relatable, as opposed to an ideal.
Austin: Yes. 
Sylvia: You know?
Austin: Yes.
Sylvia: It’s like, “Oh fuck, even my Divine has felt like the way that I feel.”
Austin: Yeah. Totally. Which means that even if you are literally still severed, Cori gets to say, “God’s just like me.”
Sylvia: He’s just like me for real. [Ali laughs] It’s the Chainsaw Man edit of Denji crying in front of the TV. 
Austin: [laughs] Ah, god. Perfect. So, yeah, there you go. You're not Severed anymore. Figure or Thisbe, do you want to spend a token during this scene?
Dre: I don't think so.
Austin: Okay.
Janine: What are the…?
Dre: I'm gonna double check.
Sylvia: Actually, could I—
Austin: They’re in the Infirmary. I'll post it again.
Sylvia: Am I able to spend another token here actually?
Austin: You absolutely can.
Sylvia: To advance the clock Thisbe just started, because I think something about this actually ties into that.
Austin: You can, I think, if you're doing something here. What does it look like?
Sylvia: Well, so, like, I guess it’s…we can talk about that, because I'm trying to focus on the fact that there is this seemingly different Devotion that has been…
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: In the first time we talked about this, you described it as something visited it, and then it changed.
Austin: Yeah, something— I mean, it was very— I was either very coy or very…more open than I thought I would be this early in the season. Maybe a little of A and a little of B, but something from the Principality, something from the then-The-Curtain arrived to corrupt Devotion. Devotion wasn't always the thing that we know Devotion is now. There was this other…there was a previous era of Devotion that lived up to the aspirational infrastructural vision of Devotion as something that was itself devoted to the people of the Twilight Mirage.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: The devotion was something that the Divine had, not something demanded of its people.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: So, yeah.
Keith: You're saying new Devotion is Arbitrage.
Austin: I'm not saying new Devotion is Arbitrage. I don't think that the timing actually works, for weird reasons, which is like, Arbitrage existed before this Devotion would have, because Devotion…yeah, Arbitrage existed well before Devotion did, right? Because Arbitrage was an NPC in Twilight Mirage, and then Devotion was made by Grand Magnificent after Twilight Mirage, as we learned in that weird iconographic flashback that Cori went through at the Dim Liturgy place, the Isle of the Broken Key. And then, after that, Arbitrage was here, was out in the Divine Principality. By then, Arbitrage left to go to the Divine Principality, right? And was not in the Mirage at that point, so couldn't have become Devotion at that point. This is something else.
Sylvia: To specifically get back to the how Divines communicate thing…
Austin: Yes.
Sylvia: I think that part of this is studying the stuff with, um…Loyalty. I was like, “Why am I…”
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I'm looking at the word, and it’s not coming to mind. Anyway, studying, like…I know that that’s more of Candidate and Divine.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: But, you know, we can tie it in there.
Austin: I mean, it’s been—
Sylvia: And then also the fact that this thing happened to Devotion, and like, trying to, like…I don't know. To me, it felt— I know that it was something from the Principality— or not from the— yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. All the time, like, lines…
Austin: Yeah, we have a lot of eras.
Sylvia: Not timelines, but the time periods, yeah.
Austin: Yes, uh-huh.
Sylvia: That’s what’s throwing me off here.
Austin: Fully, truly, we do.
Sylvia: So, that, to me, always read as, like, one of their Divines did this, but if I'm wrong, I'm wrong.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Um—
Sylvia: But it does just…it seemed like something where it’s like, I don't know, Cori would want to look into.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: I think that that’s fine to advance, and also I'm gonna— it should be at one already, because we start clocks at one, and then yeah, I'd let you advance this by another one, which is like, there’s something about this Divine that— I mean, I guess my question actually is this way: what is it you've learned here in doing this that could roll up into an answer for how do you communicate with Divines? Or how do you, you know, again, we…you can just talk to a Divine, but there’s something deeper being asked here, right?
Sylvia: Yeah. I think that this is, like, the fact that she keeps getting this afterimage of Devotion is like…
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: There’s almost sort of like a timespace element to it, where it’s like, do Divines exist in— do Divines experience this the same way we do?
Austin: Right.
Sylvia: Are they able to communicate, like, through time what is going on with this fucking depressed-ass god in my head?
Austin: Yeah. [Dre laughs quietly] Yeah, so just, ongoing studies of Divine…uh, how Divines communicate.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Do you communicate this with Thisbe? Thisbe, do you raise this idea to Cori or to Figure as you come back or as you're leaving?
Janine: Um, I— yeah, that’s— I've been wondering, like, how much would Thisbe get into this, and I wonder if she would just frame it as, like, you know, we’re used to seeing Divines very separate, and sometimes you get a couple that are, like, together and stuff, but mostly we’re used to seeing them as, like, on their own surrounded by people. Surrounded by, like, you know…
Austin: Right, humans
Janine: Mortals? I don't know.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Janine: Humans, et cetera.
Austin: Yeah, right.
Janine: So, I think what Thisbe expresses is probably, like, it’s kind of miraculous that they were all able to get here?
Austin: Mm.
Janine: And it’s confusing to her. That’s the element that she’s working through, and I wonder if Cori, like, chimes in or like…
Austin: Yeah, what do you— let’s come in on it’s confusing for you. What’s that actually…how do you actually say that? And then we can just be in character. I'd love to just hear some of this conversation.
Janine: Yeah.
Thisbe and Cori [1:14:40]
Janine (as Thisbe): It seems to defy what I understand of communication, the way that they were able to find this place at all. It isn't just one, it’s many of them, and I don't understand.
Sylvia (as Cori): There’s…just from what I've been…I don't know. I was looking at the Chamber of Loyalty, and I guess they’ve got a penchant for finding…there’s, like, a connection that Divines are able to make that doesn't necessarily feel like things that we’re able to do. And I guess I never thought of it as, like, a common trend among them, but now it feels like I've been visited by two separate Devotions, and I've seen just sort of, like, depictions of the way that the old Candidates were, and I just wonder if they’re able to feel the…
Sylvia: And she, like, squints a lot, like, while she’s trying to find the word.
(as Cori): Galaxy? More than us?
Sylvia: And she, like, does a thing with her hands where her, like, fingers kind of, like, twinkle a little, [laughs quietly] and is like…
(as Cori): [struggling] You know, like, space—? It’s really— I don't know how they do it, but they, like, seem drawn to things. And like, I wish I kinda— I wish I knew why, because one of them’s drawn to me, and it’s confusing as hell.
Janine: I just realized, like, I don't know how much Thisbe knows about Cori’s relationship with Devotion.
Sylvia: I don't know if she’s ever mentioned to other people that she, A, speaks to it…
Janine: Right, yeah, that’s exactly what I'm wrestling with, is just like…is this the moment when Thisbe’s like…I don't even know that she would think Cori’s communicating. I think she would read it as, like:
(as Thisbe): Do you see a Divine?
Sylvia (as Cori): Sometimes, yeah. When it lets me.
Janine (as Thisbe): When it lets you.
Sylvia (as Cori): It… [sighs] I've never commun— I've never talked to it on purpose, really. I mean, like, not this one. Not the new one. I've never talked to the new one on purpose. I've never reached for this one that I don't know and had it reach back, it just—
Janine (as Thisbe): The new one.
Sylvia (as Cori): There's, like, a…like I said.
Sylvia: [laughs quietly] She does the hand thing again.
(as Cori): There’s a lot that I don't…there’s just stuff in the air. Not literally, but maybe literally.
Janine: Thisbe looks around. 
Austin: Mh.
Sylvia (as Cori): Uh, it’s like I’m…ok, so, it happened when I went with the captain to the…
Sylvia: What was it called, Austin? The Glass Archive? The…
Austin: The Glass Archive, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
(as Cori): When I went to the Glass Archive with the captain, I had this moment where I…to me, I disappeared, and I was somewhere else, and I was speaking with Devotion, and it was a different Devotion than the one that I've heard whenever I've been, like, in a place to hear the voice of Devotion. But then the captain found me, and it just seemed like I had been unconscious for a while, and so like, I wasn't sure? But it just happened while I was here as well, that I had another— it wasn't as much of a conversation this time, but I felt it, and it talked to me, and I don't know how to talk back, aside from these, like, fleeting encounters with it.
Janine: Hang on, what’s the—?
Sylvia (as Cori): Does this make any sense to you?
Janine: What’s the doctor’s name on the ship?
Austin: Saffron, um…
Janine: Septet?
Austin: Septet, yes.
Janine: Right. Um…I think Thisbe, like, thinks about this.
(as Thisbe): When we are back on the ship, I…
Janine: Mm. I don't like the “I” there.
(as Thisbe): When we are back on the ship… [Austin laughs quietly] we should go to Operant Septet and investigate your brain. [Keith and Dre laugh]
Austin: Huh.
Janine (as Thisbe): Perhaps there is something there that is key to what you're experiencing.
Sylvia (as Cori): [disappointed] Yeah. Sure. 
Ali: [sympathetically] Mm. [Austin laughs] 
Sylvia (as Cori): [resigned] Yeah.
Sylvia: Like, genuinely looks kinda— like, I know that it’s just because it’s how Thisbe communicates, and there’s, like, nuance lost there, because Thisbe’s probably just like, “Oh yeah, no, there might be something going on in your brain. We should study that.” But the way Cori hears it is, “Okay, you hit your head. There’s something, like…” 
Austin: [laughs sympathetically] Aw…
Janine: [laughs] No! No, I think…I mean, I think, to be clear, I think Thisbe would specifically say, like:
(as Thisbe): There may be something about you that is key to this.
Sylvia: Okay. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Not, like, “You hurt yourself, and you're having hallucinations,” but more like, “Maybe you're special in a way that we need to explore.”
Sylvia: Okay, the reaction’s different, then. The reaction’s a bit more like:
(as Cori): [intrigued] Okay.
Janine: I was truly like, “How— would it make sense if Thisbe gave a little thumbs up after?” and I was like, “No, it doesn't. It doesn't make sense.” But, like, I was thinking, like, how does Thisbe…
Austin: It is very funny to think of, though.
Janine: How does Thisbe, like, display being pleased that Cori is, like, on board with this?
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Like, how does she reassure? Does she even recognize a need to reassure? I'm not sure. But I think…I mean, I think what she does convey is, like, satisfaction, right? Like, she’s…this interaction has satisfied something that was bothering her, and that’s good. That’s a positive experience.
Austin: Mm-hmm. I have to do this thing, which is important, [Janine: Mm-hmm.] because of being a GM, which is…
Janine: Mm-hmm?
Austin: The last time that the two of you were here, you did write a new clock about each other.
Sylvia: Uh-huh.
Janine: Yes. Yep!
Austin: Can you read those out loud and tell me how that squares?
Sylvia: Oh boy.
Janine: I was gonna spend a token to do something to it.
Austin: Oh, okay, please.
Sylvia: Yeah, I was also thinking of tweaking mine. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: What are those clocks?
Janine: Mine is sort of riffing on a common format that we use. “If I am a bullet, Cori is a grenade. If she is not stopped, she will self destruct and take others with her.”
Austin: Yes. True.
Sylvia: My one’s so shitty. [Ali laughs] My one’s sooo shitty! I forgot how bitchy this was!
Janine: Uh-huh?
Sylvia: “Thisbe is afraid to get their hands dirty. Kind of ironic for a farming robot.”
Ali: Whoa!
Dre: Damn!
Janine: Wow. Nasty.
Austin: So you're both spending tokens to advance these? Is that what’s happening?
Sylvia: Yeah, and I'm probably not— I'm probably gonna— [laughs quietly] can I change how that’s written?
Austin: No! [Ali laughs]
Dre: No.
Austin: Not until it fills!
Sylvia: Damn, okay!
Austin: Uh-huh. 
Sylvia: I'll live with it.
Austin: So, that should go up— those should go up to three now, because they should have started at one, and you both just spent a token, so it should go up to three. Three marks, not plus three.
Sylvia: Sorry, I wrote this right after you got mad at me for killing civilians.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: Yeah, no, it’s the same thing. Uh, Cori was spending a token to advance the project clock.
Austin: Oh, right, right, right, yes, sorry. Cori.
Sylvia: Oh, I was gonna—
Austin: You're gonna spend two?
Sylvia: I do have a second token, don't i?
Austin: You do. Yeah, you could.
Janine: Oh, can we double spend token?
Sylvia: Should I hold on— I should hold onto that for the, um…
Austin: Up to you.
Sylvia: Sortie thing, I think, just to be safe.
Austin: Yeah, maybe that’s a good idea. 
Sylvia: So yeah, let’s…
Austin: Also, we have to—
Janine: We have so many tapped things.
Austin: You have so many tapped factions.
Sylvia: Yeah, that’s…yeah.
Austin: Yes, yes.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay, so that’s at two.
Austin: So then, only plus two. Yeah. Or only up to two.
Janine: Is this— we never— did we set how many steps this clock was gonna be? We didn't have that talk.
Austin: The Talk to Divines one?
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: We didn't. You put it at eight.
Janine: I just put it in an empty space.
Austin: Oh, okay, I see. I see.
Janine: That’s all I did. I didn't…
Austin: For the thing that you're talking about…what’s the end result of filling this clock, ideally?
Janine: Uh, being able to send out a message that’s like, “Hey, if you fucking hate it here, [Austin: Yeah.] I got the place for you.”
Austin: Uh-huh. Then yeah, I think that that’s…I think that eight is probably right, if you're trying to reach all Divines, you know?
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Or reach Divines in a big way, in a major way.
Janine: I was trying— it’s like the— it’s probably like— [laughs quietly] you know 101 Dalmatians? 
Austin: Yeah, sure. Sort of.
Janine: When the dogs bark?
Austin: Right, yeah. I get you.
Janine: And they bark around.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: They bark the news around. Maybe something like that.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Austin: Like that song, “bark the news around.” [Ali laughs] Okay.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: The barrel organ song. [Austin and Janine laugh]
Austin: It would be. 
Brnine’s Interview [1:24:20]
Austin: Brnine. The lights are on. The music is playing, the theme music is playing. There was a countdown. It was like, “Three, two, one,” and then the theme— “Three, two,” and then the music started playing. And we are live, and what is happening is there was some sort of deal struck with someone at Stel Orion—or maybe it was Stel Orion itself—to get them an exclusive interview with you, in exchange for military support, financial support, who could say? for the Pact of Free States. All you know is across from you is Continental Countinghouse, and what he says is:
(as Countinghouse): Hello, everyone. My name is Continental Countinghouse, and this is “Five Stels, Five Questions.” Today, we have an elusive guest. Kalvin Brnine, formerly known as Kal’mera Broun, [Ali: Hey—] the supposed inventor of the Kalmeria particle that revolutionized the galaxy just a few years ago, a high ranking leader—some say the leader—of the militant terrorist group Millennium Break, [Sylvia laughs quietly] and most recently the commander of a violent galaxy-wide attack on the Principality’s stellar combustor system, a defense system which has, in many ways, kept this terrible ongoing conflict between the stels from spiraling into unchecked total war. And now that system is gone, [tersely] thanks to you. Captain Broun, Captain Brnine? Which is it that you prefer to be, uh, addressed with?
Ali (as Brnine): Uh, my name is Kalvin Brnine, and I am an agent of Millennium Break.
Austin (as Countinghouse): Kalvin Brnine.
Keith: We’ve got Osama on here. [Ali laughs]
Austin (as Countinghouse): Are you ready for your five questions? Are you familiar with how the show works?
Ali (as Brnine): I'm not familiar with your work.
Austin (as Countinghouse): You haven't seen “Five Stels, Five Questions.” That’s fine. You probably live in a cave. [Ali, Keith, and Sylvia laugh]
Sylvia: God!
Austin (as Countinghouse): The way it works: we’re the voice of the Principality, and so what we do is we poll the people of—
Ali (as Brnine): I'm sorry, you're the voice of the Principality?
Austin (as Countinghouse): Yeah. That’s correct.
Ali (as Brnine): You?
Austin (as Countinghouse): No, no, we.
Ali (as Brnine): Or those cards?
Austin (as Countinghouse): We are the voice of the Principality. We poll the population of the Principality to ask them what they would like to know from you, and then we let those lead a conversation between us. And so, yes, these cards have the information about the people who’ll ask you these questions. In fact, here is our first guest. Identities are, of course, protected for their safety, given the circumstances — [quietly] who you are and all that. And here we are!
Austin: And placed, rolling across the center of the room, is a little roomba. [Ali laughs quietly] A tiny little roomba, which is not going to talk to you. Instead, it projects upwards liquid metal that slowly takes the form of a person. This is a limited self projector, new technology brought from Palisade, itself brought from the Twilight Mirage in only the last couple of years. We saw these back in Twilight Mirage. I believe we first saw the Bird Leader of Advent via one of these, but here, instead of being a big bird person, there is a sort of silver metal version, liquid metal version of a sort of smart professorial woman in a tan suit. And Countinghouse says:
(as Countinghouse): For our first question, our representative from Stel Kesh.
Austin: And this voice, this woman in the kind of professor outfit says:
(as Kesh woman): Kal’mera…? Kalvin…? Commander Brnine, what is it you actually believe in?
Ali (as Brnine): I believe that people’s lives can be ruined by the leaders above them, and I believe that unity is how we help each other.
Austin (as Countinghouse): You don't find those things in the Principality?
Austin: This is Countinghouse, again adding onto the question, as only he could. 
(as Countinghouse): Unity? Certainly, you know Unity. Unity is Apostolosian.
Ali (as Brnine): That was…not my experience. [clears throat]
Austin (as Countinghouse): So is your real problem with the Apostolosians then? You are Apostolosian, after all.
Ali (as Brnine): Um…I mean, I can have a lot of problems? 
Ali: [laughs] Brnine saying, feverish and…
Austin: Uh-huh. [laughs quietly] And hollow blooded?
Ali: And hollow blooded. Love to be on TV.
Austin: Yeah, sweating on TV. [Ali sighs]
Sylvia: They brought you out on TV looking like a Bolsonaro hospital visit. [laughter] 
Austin: Oh no!
Keith: Give a weak little thumbs up. [laughter] 
Ali (as Brnine): I think that there are people like me at home in Apostolos who know that they’re being asked a lot— for a lot. Um…more than is right and more than is fair. And that isn't…you can find these stories anywhere, which is why anybody could be a part of Millennium Break. [clears throat]
Austin (as Countinghouse): Anyone could be part of Millennium Break. That’s interesting. Our second question comes from someone who [Ali laughs quietly] bravely will not hide their name, will not obscure their face. This is Aleel Verdicate, Song of Partizan, leader of Received Asterism there on the holy planet, the holy moon. 
Austin: And the liquid metal form shifts and changes until it is a woman whose face you would have recognized years ago, when you were on Partizan. This is someone who is a high-ranking Nideo member, and she says:
(as Aleel Verdicate): I have two questions. Is that okay?
Ali: I look to…the host. [laughs] 
Austin: Countinghouse, yeah, goes:
(as Countinghouse): It’s very untraditional, but you are, of course…Song’s prerogative, as they say.
Austin: And she nods and says:
(as Aleel): My first question is if the agent is familiar with this.
Austin: And the metal, the liquid metal shifts and changes until it is the KMB Custom, the mech you used to pilot.
Ali: [laughs] The mech I used to pilot?
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: It’s the Three Cheers!?
Austin: It’s the Three Cheers!, uh-huh.
Ali: Wow.
Austin: The Kal'mera Broun custom, Three Cheers!, yeah.
Ali: [laughs] I'm, like, at a crossroads here, because I don't…I’m trying to hide—
Dre: [feigned innocence] I mean, you didn't do anything bad in that mech, did you? [Sylvia laughs]
Ali: I'm trying to hide my identity on TV, right?
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: But I think that the cat is out of the bag. [Ali and Keith laugh] A lil bit!
Dre: Is it when that guy said your whole fucking government name? [Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Keith: The interview started with the host…
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Is that when you felt like the cat was out of the bag? [Dre and Ali laugh]
Keith: The interview started with the host taking the cat out of the bag in front of you. [Ali and Austin laugh]
Dre: Yeah, and then, like, holding it in the camera.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yes.
Dre: Having them zoom in on the tag on the cat. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah. Uh-huh. They know who you are.
Keith: And then letting that cat get your tongue. [Dre laughs]
Austin: You went to their jail. Like, they ran your blood. You know what I mean?
Ali: Yeah. No, I know. Yeah, I was really wondering how this would come up in this downtime.
Austin: Uh-huh. Here we are.
Ali: And how much I could deny it.
Austin: Mm.
Ali: And this is the crossroads moment of, like, do I commit, or is there reality in this situation? Because there is.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali (as Brnine): Um…I’m familiar with that model, yes.
(as Aleel): You're familiar with it. [sighs] Then— I'm curious how you villains in Millennium Break can call yourselves heroes when you, inside of this machine, gassed civilians in the town of Orzen, here on Palisade. 
Austin (as Countinghouse): We have that footage?
Austin: Says Countinghouse, and they do. They do have that footage, shaky phone footage of the Three Cheers! launching gas canisters into the streets and onto the rooftops of Orzen.
Ali: That was Partizan or Palisade?
Austin: Partizan. I said Palisade. I meant Partizan.
Ali: Partizan. Okay, yeah. Okay. Oh my god, do I even remember what that mission was? Um…
Austin: Don't say that! [Ali and Keith laugh]
Janine: That was the one where you, like, stole a bunch of stuff, right?
Keith: Wasn't this the one where you— this was the—
Ali: That was the one where Thisbe was knocking down the statues.
Austin: Correct.
Janine: There was, like, the person that we, like, double crossed from the thing?
Sylvia: I think it was a—
Austin: This is the, uh…yeah, Valence goes and gets the message from Autonomy Itself, and then y'all have to evacuate.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: You fight some, like, mechs that fly around and make violin sounds. Yes, Thisbe was drop kicking statues. 
Ali: Okay. [laughs] 
Austin: You were doing— you spent the beginning of it fake fighting in the city in order to do something.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Like a pseudo false flaggy thing.
Janine: Right.
Austin: And then real fighting on the way out, which included you gassing some people, something that your then-pseudo-boss, your kind of mercenary boss, K.O., kind of scolded you for.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Because of how many people died from it.
Ali: Sure, yes.
Austin: Sylvi in the chat: “I didn't pilot this, but the guy who did was cool as hell.” [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Like, sweating through your fucking shirt. [Austin laughs]
Ali: [groans] Okay. 
Ali (as Brnine): I… [clears throat, speaking carefully] I think that is an unfair thing to lay against Millennium Break before it existed. I am an individual who has led my own life and made my own mistakes, and the upbringing that I had under Apostolos made me a person that doesn't make the same decisions I would now, and I credit that to my comrades, and I apologize.
Austin (as Countinghouse): Very interesting. So you're saying Apostolosians taught you to gas civilians. Even though you are currently being… [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: [quietly] Bro!
Austin (as Countinghouse): …A guest on an Apostolosian ship, you bring such a heavy insult to the people who are fighting the Branched, keeping us all safe. Are you worried at all that having said that you put yourself at risk on this ship? After all, you're suggesting they have no honor. What would prevent them from hurting you?
Ali (as Brnine): I was told to answer these questions honestly and with integrity.
Austin (as Countinghouse): Honesty and integrity. I don't think those are the words that are come to mind when people think of your name. [laughter] This next question comes in from a familiar face.
Ali: He ask my girlfriend that? [Austin laughs] Gucci call in?
Austin: Gucci did not call in. [Ali laughs] God, can you imagine if Gucci called in? No. Someone in military dress, in Apostolosian military dress shows up. This is your drill instructor. They dug up your drill instructor?
Ali: Oh, great.
Austin: From basic training? I don't know that you've thought of this person in years! But that doesn't matter, because they can spin it such that this is the most important person [laughs quietly] in your life. In fact, Countinghouse says:
(as Countinghouse): Speaking of those Apostolosian values, I gotta tell you: my understanding is, in our green room there on Pelagios where our next guest is waiting, I believe that they would have heard you say those words, so if there is any shortness here, I think it’s probably well earned. We bring your— one of your earliest mentors, someone who helped shape your ethos: your drill instructor from the first year of your service with the Apostolosian military.
Austin: Shows up, full Apostolosian military gear. Head is on fire? Head is on fire. I mean, it’s metal. It’s liquid metal, that has, like, elemental fire stuff burning there. So wherever they are, their head is— they are a fire elemental person now.
Ali: Wow.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
(as instructor): What do you believe leadership is, Broun?
Austin (as Countinghouse): Our third question. What do you believe leadership is?
Ali (as Brnine): [sighs, quietly to self] Oh, what do I believe leadership is… [clears throat] I believe leadership is cultivating a…cultivating relationships with yourself and those with you, where they feel they can be honest and that they’ll be inspired. I believe in accountability. Um…and, um…I, um…I believe, um… [Ali laughs] Oh, if my crew ever sees this: hey, guys. [Sylvia and Keith laugh]
Austin (as Countinghouse): That’s it?
Ali (as Brnine): I’m sorry— yeah. I'm…I kind of dropped it at the end there, but I feel like I hit the major points. Um, do you have any water?
Austin (as Countinghouse): There is some water next to you.
Ali (as Brnine): Oh. [laughs awkwardly] Great. [clears throat] 
Austin (as Countinghouse): Tell us about your crew. How many people do you work with on a day-to-day basis?
Ali (as Brnine): [laughs] That’s a trick question.
Austin (as Countinghouse): It’s not. It’s a very direct question.
Ali (as Brnine): Um…you know I'm not gonna say that on TV, right?
Austin (as Countinghouse): The number of people you work with, you wouldn't say?
Ali (as Brnine): [laughs quietly] No. That’s, like…no.
Austin (as Countinghouse): I expected you to be prouder. Our next question— [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: God!
Austin (as Countinghouse): —comes from a leader in the Columnar business community. 
Austin: And a Columnar woman with a sort of dress suit appears in this liquid metal. She’s wearing, like, dried baby’s breath, like flowers as a pin, you know, like on her lapel.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: And she says…
Keith: Thank you for clarifying that baby’s breath is a kind of flower.
Austin: Some people might not know. I don't know.
Keith: I didn't know.
Austin: Oh.
Keith: That’s what I'm saying.
Austin: Yeah, it’s cool. It’s like a little…look it up. It feels very Keith to me. Dried baby’s breath has, like, a Keith quality.
Keith: Oh, yeah, these are everywhere, I think, near where I live.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. 
(as Columnar woman): Kal'mera Broun. Yours is a name that should live in honor because of the advances in science you've achieved. Do you not believe that your violent tactics undercut not only your ability to achieve your political objectives but have ruined any chance you have of your name living in history alongside the likes of Exanceaster March and the other great scientists of our day?
Ali (as Brnine): Um, the only list that I would want to share with Exanceaster March is a list of the deceased. [Keith laughs] And I have never felt prouder of the engineering work that I'm capable of than I have since I started putting my efforts towards Millennium Break’s.
[1:42:02]
Austin: Countinghouse nods. 
(as Countinghouse): Did you always want to be an engineer?
Austin: Looking very solemn now, looking very empathetic and serious. [Ali laughs]
Ali (as Brnine): Um, I wasn't great on the front line. You can bring back, um…the-fuck-his-name-was from the last question, if you'd like to discuss that.
Austin: We never named him. Your drill instructor. Yeah. [Ali laughs] Your drill guy, yeah. Oh, was that you in character being like, “whatever the fuck their name was”? [Ali laughs] Okay.
Ali: I think it’s both. I realize I could have asked you out of character to stop playing that, [Austin: Yeah.] but it works. Brnine has not thought of that person’s name in a very long time, so who gives a shit?
(as Brnine): And I…I had a knack for it, I guess, but it—
Austin (as Countinghouse): Genuinely, why, then, put those skills to warmaking? Why not be a medtech engineer or telecommunications, transit? Transit’s already vehicles. You could have been making, um…the next great way to see your grandma. Instead, you made bombs. What drew you to that?
Ali (as Brnine): Apostolos had a need for bombs.
Austin (as Countinghouse): Yeah, but you left Apostolos. You spent years on Partizan, working as a mercenary. We have the records from the Scrivener’s Guild, thank you to our friends and allies throughout Orion. You continued to do military work. You say you fled Apostolos to get away from the military, and then, next thing you know, you're pulling triggers again all over Partizan.
Ali (as Brnine): I left my time with Apostolos with a very particular skillset. [clears throat] And Partizan was a place torn by war, and…
Austin (as Countinghouse): You thought, “Why not keep it going? I can make a couple bucks at this.”
Ali (as Brnine): I wanted to eat, yeah.
Austin (as Countinghouse): It’s so funny, because I see the propaganda you put out. Not you specifically, but the books. You know, I've read a couple of the Breka novels. Interesting prose. Characters are really vibrant. And at the heart of it is change, an idea that things could change, but it seems like what you're telling me is that you shouldn't be judged for refusing to change, so why is it that you judge others? How is it that you feel comfortable killing people who work for the same war machine that supposedly turned you into a mass murderer? Aren't they just as innocent as you were? Or is it just luck of the draw, you met the right people?
Ali (as Brnine): Um, yeah, I don't think of myself as an innocent person, and I think that we all have the choice to [clears throat] live as we are or understand that other people suffer, and that’s what changed in me.
Austin (as Countinghouse): But if that had happened a few years before you, and someone a few years older than you had taken your spot, and you were just one more mercenary, one more engineer, one more person, little Johnny Orzen, waiting for the great awakening, it would've been fine for you to have been gassed. It would've been fine for you if a stray round hit your body, laying in bed, dreaming of algebra homework. There’s a cost to these things. Do you talk about that, you and your compatriots, the cost? Or is that just background radiation for you?
Ali (as Brnine): Do the stels ask themselves the cost?
Austin (as Countinghouse): Yes. Yes, of course. The stels keep very clean records of civilian casualties, both in the war at the front with the Branched and the wars and skirmishes here with you and between the Bilateral Intercession and the Pact of Free States. And we have, here in Stel Orion—which I am from but will not represent tonight; we have one more question coming—you know, we do our best to keep both sides well accounted for. We ask them hard-hitting questions. We demand clear numbers. You don't submit numbers. You don't file reports. We establish charities to make sure people have doctors, [Sylvia: Ugh.] to make sure people have the care they need, even behind the front lines. We have brave reporters who go and tell those stories so that people can hear them. Millennium Break seems like it’s very good at killing, and I don't know how our listeners and our viewers will understand that, for you, killing is a road to some dream. I don't see the dream. All I see is…all I see is the blood. One more question, [Ali laughs quietly] this one from a young person from Stel Orion, which I love. I love to see young people [Sylvia: God.] getting involved in politics and in the world. No name, again, to protect their identity.
Austin: And the liquid metal shifts and changes again, and it’s a teen in jeans and a “Do You Have It?” t-shirt. [Ali laughs] 
(as teen): Hi, I had never heard of your name before, but now I know it. Kal'mera Broun. Kal'mera Broun, what is your message for the people of the galaxy?
Sylvia: Palisade is a fuck!
Ali (as Brnine): Um…I think that…I think that if you're watching this and you've…huh. And you're thinking of the question…
Ali: Oh, I…ugh. I was gonna use this as an opportunity to, like, return to what that guy was just saying. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: But it feels hard to do, and that’s how “CENTER/Line” is designed.
Austin: Uh-huh. Guy sucks. [Ali laughs] To be clear, “CENTER/Line” has been canceled after the disastrous episode that everyone listened to last time. [Ali laughs quietly] This is his new show, “Five Stels, Five Questions.”
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: Okay, okay, okay. And this is his pivot. This is his pivot.
Austin: This is his pivot.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Yeah, he’s pivoted to video.
Ali: Okay. Okay.
Austin: To liquid metal video.
Ali (as Brnine): I think that if you have a question of the amount of blood shed for progress, then you should look—
Ali: Uh… [laughs] 
(as Brnine): You should look in the place in your life where blood was shed to keep things the same, and to keep the [Ali laughs] Bilateral Intercession and the Pact of Free States in power for the sake of power, and…I think even if you think that I am a disgusting person and that everything that I do is wrong, if I could say one thing… [Ali laughs] Listen to the people in your life more. That’s a nonpolitical statement you all can take home with you. [clears throat] 
Austin (as Countinghouse): Who do you wish you'd listened to more? Who do you wish you had listened to more?
Austin: He asks.
(as Countinghouse): A friend? A loved one?
Ali (as Brnine): Um…
Austin: Actually, maybe the way he would ask it is actually:
(as Countinghouse): Is there someone you wish you had listened to more?
Ali (as Brnine): Um…I had people who tried to take care of me before I had the ability to take care of others, which…
Austin (as Countinghouse): You're talking about your parents? Your teachers in Apostolos. Despite it all, you still feel for them?
Ali (as Brnine): No, but, um, hi, mom, I guess.
Austin: [laughs quietly] Fuck. 
Ali: [laughs] That can be the end of that, right?
Austin: Yeah, I guess. [Ali laughs]
Keith: They don't even care about their own mom!
Austin: They don't even care about their own mom… 
(as Countinghouse): Well, I have to say: not the conversation I expected, but it’s the conversation we had, like we always say.
Ali: Brnine just gulping water, just… [laughs] 
Austin: Uh-huh.
Ali: Pouring, like, more of it from the pitcher. 
Austin: Brnine on Hot Ones. 
Ali: [laughs] Just imagine, from Brnine discovering that there was water next to them, [Austin laughs] all of those pauses has been them…
Austin: Drinking, downing.
Ali: Pouring water into their fucking glass and sipping it.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Yeah. And then the music plays, and the lights turn off, and the little roomba slides away, and, you know, he gets up and, like, takes off his mic and then reaches out to shake your hand and is like:
(as Countinghouse): Great job. You really nailed it. You know, if you want to pivot from this, I actually know someone who does memoirs for really controversial subjects. So, you know, when you're on the other side of this, reach out—you know, they have my contact information here—and I'll put you in contact. There’s a ghostwriter too, that they have, so like, don't— you don't have to actually— just like an interview process, you know? Lighter than this, and then they just turn that material right into the book, and then you get some proceeds. I don't know what sort of deal you'd get. I know that the state will garnish some of what you make, probably, but we—
Ali (as Brnine): What are you talking about?
Austin (as Countinghouse): How you're gonna live a life after this.
Ali (as Brnine): Oh. Right. Um, yeah. Yeah, okay.
Austin (as Countinghouse): What do you think is about to happen to you?
Ali (as Brnine): Um. Gonna be in jail for a bit?
Austin (as Countinghouse): [quietly to self] You're gonna be in jail for a bit. [regular] Oh. I can tell you were never close to power.
Sylvia: Ugh.
Ali: Damn!
Austin (as Countinghouse): You made—
Ali (as Brnine): I take that as a compliment.
Austin (as Countinghouse): You made Kalmeria. They’d never let you rot in jail.
Ali (as Brnine): [quietly] Oh, god.
Austin: And then goes to tap you on— like, pat you on the shoulder, and thinks better of it and leaves.
Ali: [laughs] Brnine pulling aside a crew member and being like, “Can you refill this?” about this jug of water.
Austin: Uh-huh. 
Ali: “Can I get another one of these?”
Austin: And yeah, they leave you in this room for a second. There’s a guard in here with you, you know? Door’s locked. And then, when the door opens again, someone comes in with a new, you know, pitcher of water, and it is a woman wearing gold and white. The last time we saw her, she was wearing more white than gold. She has kind of a sleek suit on, kind of— previously, she had these kind of, like, big wide flared shoulders, I want to say, and like a really sharp angular collar. I think those shoulders have been brought in. This is Gallica. This is the Elect of the Divine Present, who you may have briefly seen on, like, a radio call during the Kingdom game in PARTIZAN, five years ago. And she pours you a glass of water and says:
(as Gallica): I have your shot. Do you want it, or do you want me to give it to your crewmember while we go on tour?
Ali (as Brnine): I'm sorry, I thought the arrangement was for two shots.
Austin (as Gallica): Two asks. One shot each.
Ali (as Brnine): Um, help Routine.
Austin: And she hands the suitcase to the guard, who takes it away.
(as Gallica): My name’s Gallica. We met briefly years ago.
Ali (as Brnine): Oh, I'm sorry, I don't recall.
Austin (as Gallica): That’s fine. Are you ready to go? 
Ali (as Brnine): Uh—
Austin (as Gallica): I'm guessing they don't have your things here somewhere for you to get.
Ali (as Brnine): Um, uh, no.
Austin (as Gallica): Mm. Come with me.
Austin: And, you know, with a real— with a real confident strut, begins to lead you away. Still flanked by guards— you are. She walks ahead of you, as you move through the ship. And in one moment, you are walking through this ship, and as you walk, the next moment, your foot lifts from the ground, and before it touches down again, you are aboard the Divine Present, which in this form is a sort of very luxurious version of the Blue Channel. It is like a frigate. It’s the same size as the Blue Channel. It’s oval in a kind of similar way. It has, like, living quarters and, like, cargo space and armory. It has, like, a hangar for one hollow, but that’s not what you see. What you see is the fully stocked bar. What you see is the plush couch. [Ali laughs quietly] You know? And she is leading you to— in fact, I think she says:
(as Gallica): Stay here. This will only be— 
Austin: Oh, actually, I don't think she has to say anything. She leads you to— she snaps her fingers is what she does, and one of the walls pulls away, and you can see that you are out in the middle of space somewhere. This is the first time you've seen where you are since being on board the Apostolosian brig or the Apostolosian ship, and you don't see Palisade anywhere. You don't see the sun anywhere. You are in fucking dark space. And we’ll go back to the other side. 
Blue Channel [1:57:34]
Austin: How’s it going, everybody? Where are you headed? Are you gonna deal with these tapped factions? Are you gonna deal with something else? Who’s in command on the Blue Channel? Is Thisbe still in command?
Janine: Uh, I don't know. Was I— I mean, I guess I was in charge of the mission. I didn't know if I was in charge of the ship technically also.
Austin: You might be the ranking officer, at this point.
Keith: Damn.
Janine: Wow.
Keith: Moving up.
Ali: Yeah, I think, in like, if there was, like, a structural [Austin: Yeah.] version of this…
Keith: Yeah, they would all know who is who if someone’s not there.
Ali: Right, yeah.
Janine: I wonder if it was just, like, presumed in a way where Thisbe doesn't actually know.
Austin: Right.
Janine: It’s just, everyone’s asking her for advice more often than normal.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. [Ali laughs]
Janine: She’s like, “Oh, this is what we do.”
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: “What we do is this.” She knows the protocols like the back of her hand. She knows, like, all of the routines, all of the practices very easily.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: So it’s like, yeah, okay. She probably doesn't see it as, like, giving orders, though.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: I want to untap a faction, but also, I already spent my scene, so.
Austin: You did already spend your scene. Shit. 
Janine: Someone else gotta do it. Someone else gotta— I mean, I have a token, but…
Keith: Just one scene, two tokens?
Austin: One scene, two tokens.
Keith: I'm full up on stuff to do, but I am not there.
Austin: Not yet, yeah.
Sylvia: I've also— the only scene I could do is talk about god, so I'm out of scenes. I got one token, though.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Figure? Are you in a place where you can…? I guess once you— maybe, Keith, once you get on board, you could do that scene, but.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Austin: But yeah, I don't know. I guess I'm curious, Figure, what scene do you want? Because we have two scenes left.
Dre: Um, I was gonna do a Fade.
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.
Dre: I don't know if this is the scene where we talk about new mech stuff?
Austin: Maybe. I mean, if you want to save that, you can save that for when [Dre: Yeah.] you want to debut it, you know what I mean? You don't need to spend a Fade just to get your new mech, you know what I mean?
Dre: Yeah. Yeah.
Austin: I want to know what the scene is you want, most—
Dre: Mm.
Austin: And that could be a Fade, you know?
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: And the mech stuff could happen during that even, but.
Dre: Uh, I think—
Austin: Let me just double check really quick. No one else has perils or stuff that they need to attend to, right? No. Okay.
Dre: Yeah, in my head, I was thinking of doing the Fade as a scene establishing a gravity clock with Keith’s new character?
Austin: Mm, okay. That could happen. You could be, um…you know, going to some— going somewhere where— I don't know, Keith, have you thought about how Eclectic will have gotten in touch with the Blue Channel?
Keith: Um…
Austin: Also, is it— do we call you Eclectic? Is that the— is that what you go by? Is that what I should write down here in the tab and the bottom of our sheets section? I just did it. I just wrote it.
Keith: Let’s say, for now, we can go by Eclectic.
Austin: Okay. [Dre chuckles] 
Ali: [pondering] For now.
Austin: Okay.
Dre: The other idea I just thought of was doing a Command Deck.
Austin: Right.
Dre: And this is specifically, I guess, figuring out where Brnine is and how we can go get them.
Austin: Sure.
Ali: [touched] Aw!
Austin: Yeah. I mean, this is the thing, right? Is like, I don't know what your next mission is yet.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: You know, when you get back to the ship, I think there’s lots of open questions from— you know, we talk sometimes about the BBS system, the, like, forums, the Millennium Break forums, and they are popping right now, you know? After Phrygian’s sacrifice and the stopping of the stellar combustor all across the galaxy.
Keith: Sorry, what’s popping?
Austin: The message boards?
Keith: The message boards? Okay. 
Austin: The forums?
Keith: People are on the forums.
Austin: Yeah, people are on the BBS.
Keith: People are posting.
Austin: Posting. People are posting.
Keith: People are posting!
Sylvia: Everybody’s icon is Branched Man right now.
Austin: Everybody— yes, 100%.
Dre: Mm-hmm. [Ali gasps]
Austin: The Branched Man memes are going wild [Ali laughs] on the Strand network right now. It’s very fun. People are really sad about losing Phrygian. I mean, I will say this: there’s a lot of people who are being— they’re being like, “[clicks tongue] I always knew the Branched were all right,” you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: They’re using this to be real loud about being right about the Branched, or—
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Coming out as pro-Branched.
Austin: [laughs] Yes.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: Uh-huh. Yep.
Keith: Coming out as having been pro-Branched.
Austin: Yes, exactly.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Exactly. Branched lives matter. They’ve put it in their fucking—
Keith: You can look at my timeline. I never said shit.
Austin: Yes. Uh-huh. [laughs quietly] And if I did, I deleted it. [Keith laughs] 
Dre: Listen. We gotta do better for fucking Phrygian than just having the Gaylors come on Twitter. [laughter] 
Austin: I think there are also people who are like, you know, for real for real about it. And, you know, sometimes you win the world by inches and not by yards, you know?
Keith: Yeah, sure. Yeah. Once you get the fairweathers and hypocrites on your side, you've really won.
Austin: Yeah, then you've won. Yeah, yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Once you get, um…god, what’s his name? Why am I blanking on his name? Oh my god. The David Guetta MLK…
Sylvia: Oh my god!
Dre: God. Yeah.
Austin: Did we already do this joke during that episode?
Keith: What is— I don't even know who you're talking about.
Austin: Have you— did you not see the David Guetta tribute to George Floyd?
Dre: Was it for George Floyd? Yeah. Ugh.
Austin: Years ago?
Keith: I don't even know if I know who David Guetta is.
Janine: Is it “Gwet-ta”? I thought it was “Get-ta”.
Sylvia: It’s “Get-ta”, I believe.
Austin: Is it “Get-ta”? Okay. There’s a U. I don't know.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: I don't know from… You didn't see this thing, Keith?
Keith: French DJ and music producer. No, I have no clue who this is. [Ali laughs quietly]
Austin: This is amazing to me.
Dre: Wait, is this gonna be the first time that Keith sees this video?
Austin: Yeah, it is. Uh-huh.
Sylvia: I'm so excited.
Austin: I'm so— I'm gonna get the right—
Keith: Count on me for not having heard of something.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: No, this is true. This is true.
Sylvia: You're very offline.
Austin: Yeah. Let me find the right timestamp. Dropping this here in. This is 28 seconds into David Gwetta— David Guetta, “ID (Tribute to George Floyd)”. Go ahead and hit play on that, Keith, at your will. You know? 
Keith: Okay. 
[video: music playing]
David Guetta: All right, people, united at home.
Keith: United at home.
Austin: Yeah, united at home.
David Guetta: The world is going through difficult times.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Brnine should have just said this.
David Guetta: And America too, actually. 
[laughter] 
Keith: With the soundtrack.
Austin: In America too, actually. [Sylvia laughs]
David Guetta: So, last night, I knew we were gonna do this—
Austin: Oh my god.
David Guetta: And I made a special record.
Janine: Sponsored by HP.
Austin: [laughs] Yeah, sure is.
David Guetta: So, this record is in honor of George Floyd, and I really hope we can see more unity and more peace, when already things are so difficult.
Austin: [imitating music]
David Guetta: So, shoutout to his family.
[laughter] 
Keith: Shoutout to his family.
[music increases]
Keith: Shoutout.
Austin: Wait, wait, wait!
Martin Luther King Jr.: For even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream.
[laughter] 
Austin: Ohhh. Wait for the drop!
MLK: [echoing] I have a dream. [the beat drops]
Ali: Let’s go.
Keith: He’s loving it.
Austin: He’s— look where he is! He’s on top of New York City!
MLK: [echoing] I have a dream.
Keith: Oh my god.
MLK: [echoing] That one day…
[audio cuts]
Austin: And the cutaway to, like, soccer players! It’s incredible. All right. Thank you for, Keith— 
Keith: Soccer players barely interested in dancing to this.
Austin: Yes, uh-huh. Yeah, uh-huh.
Keith: Wow, that’s unreal. That’s so funny.
Austin: I have a dream.
Keith: And the voice on Martin Luther King—
Austin: Yeah, the reverb? Yes.
Keith: —is so processed, I did think, for a second, that it was a recording of David Guetta himself reading…
Austin: Yeah! [Ali laughs]
Janine: Oh, man.
Austin: That would be incredible.
Keith: Yeah. But no, it was actually…
Austin: I knew we were doing this tomorrow, so, uh, I recorded myself. [Janine and Keith laugh]
Keith: He said, “I made a special record.”
Austin: He made a special record. He did.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: What were we do— oh, you were— [Keith laughs] I don't know anymore. I don't know anymore what we were doing. I'm too tired.
Keith: Um, we were…
Janine: We’re gonna meet Keith’s new character at a rave.
Dre: Yeah, uh-huh.
Austin: Right, of course.
Keith: We were trying to get me to the Blue Channel.
Austin: Right. Yeah.
Keith: I don't remember how David—
Austin: Command Deck move is what— yeah, why the fuck did David Guetta come up? I don't know. [Ali laughs] Oh, we were talking about—
Keith: (2:06:32???) all of our brains.
Austin: We were talking about bad people posting.
Keith: Oh.
Dre: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah, we were talking about how people were posting, and then…
Austin: Doing this. David Guetta did this but for the Branched.
Keith: We got David Guetta. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, but then the Phrygian drop hit.
Keith: Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: I don't know what the big Phrygian speech was. I mean, it’s just the thing at the end.
Keith: Right, it’s the “Palisade is a fuck.”
Austin: “Palisade is a fuck,” yeah. Uh-huh.
Keith: “I am Branched Man.”
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, there’s an “I am Branched Man” beat that drops.
Austin: Right, boop boop, ch-ka boop boop. Yeah, uh-huh. Yeah, it’s great.
Keith: Tonight, we are all Branched Man.
Austin: [laughs] Yes, even the women. Even the non-binaries.
Janine: Shoutout to their family, if they have one.
Austin: [laughing] If they have one! Ugh! [pauses] Dre, how do you want to do this Command Deck move? Is this like— because maybe this is how you meet Keith’s new character Eclectic is, while doing this, Eclectic Columbos his way onto the ship. 
Dre: [laughs] “So, one last question.”
Austin: [voice] “Just one last question.” That’s almost more like a Jay Leno I stumbled into. Whoops. 
Sylvia: What’s the deal with the Branched?
Austin: What’s the deal with the Branched?
Keith: You don't want to stumble into Jay Leno.
Austin: No.
Keith: He’s getting up there.
Austin: [laughs] Oh.
Ali: [whispers] What?
Dre: Oh, man. I bet Jay Leno would have some cool questions for Brnine. About their— 
Sylvia: ‘Cause he’d die if you stumbled into him. Right?
Ali: No, yeah, uh-huh.
Austin: Yeah, I get it. I got it. Yeah, mm-hmm.
Keith: [Jay Leno voice] I fell down! [Ali laughs] I just fell right down. 
Austin: Any noise. Any sound. [Ali laughs]
Keith: [Jay Leno voice] My coccyx! [laughter] 
Austin: You're veering onto Mike Tyson, which is a little…
Keith: It is. [laughing] Mike Tyson…
Janine: Or, like, Snagglepuss? [laughter] 
Ali: [laughing] What are we doing?
Austin: Can we end the episode? Is the episode over? Are we too tired to do this?
Keith: No, I feel like we’re just getting started.
Dre: Yeah, no, we’re—
Austin: No, I mean, I don't have a lot more in me. I got one more scene in me, probably.
Dre: Yeah, all right. Let’s do this Command Deck scene.
Janine: Let’s figure out this Command Deck, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, mm-hmm.
Dre: I mean, I assume we all get to see that broadcast.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, totally. Again, you saw it already.
Sylvia: I'm working on my Captain Brnine fancam.
Dre: Yeah.
Ali: Aw!
Austin: Very cute.
Ali: Oh my god.
Austin: Yeah, Brnine’s fucking gone.
Sylvia: It’s just clips of you looking sweaty, Brnine.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, and I think, like, Hunting is like like:
(as Hunting): We lost track of— there was another vessel, and we lost track of it soon after the message came in from Phrygian. We don't know…we think Phrygian’s gone. Gone. And we haven't heard from Routine or from Captain Brnine, and—
Ali: I—
Austin: Yep.
Dre: I guess we don't have any knowledge about those other operatives being on…
Austin: No one sent word about them, no.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Which, by the way, weren't they really conveniently left out of the story [Dre: Mm-hmm.] that the Pact has told to Orion? Yeah, mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah, there was no one there to even mention them, unfortunately.
Austin: Mm-mm. What were you gonna say, Ali?
Ali: Oh, no, I'm sorry. [laughs] Is the fancam to a shoegaze song, a k-pop song, or like a female rap—? [laughs] 
Sylvia: A k-pop song. K-pop song. In my head—
Janine: I true— I'm looking up Red Velvet songs right now.
Austin: Great. Perfect. Great. Ideal. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: There is, uh—
Keith: What was the third option after k-pop?
Ali: Uh, like, a female rap verse.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Mm, sure.
Sylvia: Oh, like a Flo Milli?
Austin: An Ice Spice or a…
Ali: Yeah, uh-huh.
Sylvia: There’s a specific Tom from Succession fancam set to “Gee” by Girls’ Generation. 
Ali: [laughs] Yes.
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: And that was what popped into my mind.
Ali: Sure. Okay, anyway, go on with the scene. My bad. [laughs] 
Austin: We’re never gonna finish this.
Dre: No.
Keith: I'll just put it out there that I would love a cool scene where someone flips on a light and Eclectic is in the room.
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: Already.
Keith: Already.
Austin: Great debut.
Keith: Yeah. I think that’s—
Austin: Unloading boxes, and then like, “Oh, I gotta turn on the light,” and then, boop.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You're already there. You're sitting on the box, and you're smoking one of your cigarettes. 
Dre: Oh, I was—
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: I was gonna say, like, we’re, like, crowding into a meeting room, and somebody, like, flips on the lights.
Austin: Mm. 
Keith: Hold on. [imitates light switch] 
Austin: Oh, for the Command Deck part. Right, right, right.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, that makes sense.
Keith: I got sound effects. [imitates light switch]
Austin: That was you— that’s, yeah, uh-huh. I heard it.
Keith’s Character Arrives [2:10:42]
Keith (as Eclectic): Took long enough.
Austin (as Hunting): Who are you? How’d you get on board the ship?
Keith (as Eclectic): Eclectic, and easily.
Austin (as Hunting): Eclectic and easily. I don't know who you are.
Dre (as Figure): Why did you get on board the ship?
Keith (as Eclectic): Leap sent me.
Austin (as Hunting): Who’s Leap?
Keith (as Eclectic): [dismissively] “Who’s Leap.”
Sylvia (as Cori): “Who’s Leap?” Have you not— you haven’t— people don't read anymore. [Dre laughs]
Austin (as Hunting): That Leap?
Keith (as Eclectic): The Partizan pirate?
Austin (as Hunting): “We will leap” Leap?
Keith (as Eclectic): “We will leap” Leap. Leap.
Dre (as Figure): Okay. Um, why did Leap send you?
Keith (as Eclectic): [sighs] Little bit busy, huh?
Austin (as Hunting): How did you get on the ship?
Keith (as Eclectic): I said: easily.
Austin (as Hunting): That’s a—...
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah. A problem.
Austin (as Hunting): That’s what I was gonna say.
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah.
Austin (as Hunting): You're, like…the whole attitude, the whole vibe, you're like some kind of, um…like a…
Keith (as Eclectic): Detective?
Austin (as Hunting): [awed] Like a detective.
Keith (as Eclectic): Yep. I knew you were gonna say that. [Dre laughs]
Austin (as Hunting): And if there’s a detective here…
Dre (as Figure): Did you deduce that?
Keith (as Eclectic): If there’s a detective here, there’s something to detect, and it’s bad.
Austin (as Hunting): There’s gotta be a mystery. Are you here to help us find Brnine?
Keith: I slide, like, three pieces of paper across the table.
(as Eclectic): No, the Brnine thing happened after I left. That’s a shame. I thought I was gonna talk to them, but…something else. Something worse. Something bigger.
Dre (as Figure): [hesitant] Okay.
Dre: Figure picks up the pieces of paper.
Keith: It’s photographs.
Austin: Did you say that out loud? [laughs] 
Dre (as Figure): Okay. What am I looking at?
Keith (as Eclectic): It’s photographs. [Austin laughs] Factories. See the smoke?
Dre (as Figure): Mm-hmm. Factories building what?
Keith (as Eclectic): I don't know. Well…yeah, I don't know.
Dre (as Figure): [sighs] 
Keith (as Eclectic): The smoke’s going in.
Dre (as Figure): Oh.
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah, weird.
Austin (as Hunting): How do you know? They’re photographs.
Keith (as Eclectic): We think it has something to do with Motion. You know Motion, right?
Austin (as Hunting): Moving around?
Dre (as Figure): No.
Keith (as Eclectic): No.
Sylvia (as Cori): Like the Divine?
Keith (as Eclectic): Like the Divine.
Dre (as Figure): Devotion is gone.
Austin: No— mm. One more time. Motion.
Dre: Motion, sorry.
Austin: Devotion—
Sylvia: Wait a minute!
Dre: Yeah, Cori! [Keith and Austin laugh]
(as Figure): Motion is gone.
Keith (as Eclectic): We think so. I hope so.
Dre (as Figure): [sighs] 
Keith (as Eclectic): We found letters, stacks of ‘em, talking about Motion, talking about these factories. We don't know what’s going on, but Leap sent me to check it out.
Dre (as Figure): That’s…great, but we do not have our captain.
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah, we gotta do something about that.
Austin (as Hunting): Maybe if you help us get our captain back, we can help you with the whole, um…you know, detective stuff.
Dre (as Figure): Who’s running the factory?
Keith: Uh…do I know that it’s March?
Austin: You know that it’s the Frontier Syndicate, yeah. 
Keith (as Eclectic): It’s the Frontier Syndicate.
Austin: You don't know if it’s March himself, if it’s someone else, but it’s the Frontier Syndicate. And there’s a bunch of these factories. It’s not just the one.
Keith: I tell that. I say that.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith (as Eclectic): So, we gonna do this?
Austin (as Hunting): Brnine’s gonna have a lot of questions about you and about how you got on the ship.
Keith (as Eclectic): Have an answer.
Austin (as Hunting): “Easily.”
Keith (as Eclectic): Easily. 
Keith: Long drag.
Dre (as Figure): Did you not—
Sylvia (as Cori): This guy’s kind of a smooth operator, huh?
Dre (as Figure): Did you not encounter any of the, uh…no little robots tried to accost you or anything?
Keith (as Eclectic): I encountered— they didn't accost me.
Dre (as Figure): Hmm.
Austin (as Midnite): That’s troubling.
Austin: Says Midnite.
Dre (as Figure): Ship’s going soft.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia (as Cori): It could be a sign that he’s cool?
Keith (as Eclectic): Don't I seem cool? [Dre laughs quietly] 
Sylvia (as Cori): I mean— 
Austin (as Midnite): Not really.
Austin: Says Midnite. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
(as Midnite): You seem like you're trying really hard. Cool people don't have to.
Keith: Another long drag.
Dre: [laughs] I don't know. I'm vaping. Isn't that cool? [Austin laughs]
Sylvia (as Cori): It’s kind of cool that he’s— I kind of want to vape now too!
Austin (as Hunting): Yeah, do you have more?
Austin: Says Hunting. [Dre laughs]
Keith: I take a pack out of my shirt, out of my shirt pocket.
Austin: Oh no. You don't have to actually smoke it. 
Dre (as Figure): Oh no.
Austin: I don't know what’s in there.
Sylvia: Oh no.
Dre (as Figure): Okay. All right. Hold on.
Sylvia: Cori just got an Elf Bar. Oh no! [Austin laughs]
Dre (as Figure): [uncertainly] I'm calling this briefing to order? God, how does Brnine do this?
Janine (as Thisbe): About the same as you just did.
Sylvia (as Cori): Yeah, about the same.
Dre (as Figure): Fuck.
Austin (as Hunting): Yeah, about the same.
Keith (as Eclectic): Also with the question mark at the end?
Dre (as Figure): Yeah.
Sylvia (as Cori): You haven't met the captain.
Dre (as Figure): Yeah.
Sylvia (as Cori): They've got an interesting way of doing things.
Austin: [laughs quietly] Ah!
Janine (as Thisbe): It is possible that Brnine’s absence has complicated Asepsis, Asepsis’s behavior somewhat.
Janine: …I guess? I don't know.
Keith (as Eclectic): Asepsis.
Austin (as Hunting): It’s a Divine.
Keith (as Eclectic): That’s the Divine?
Austin (as Hunting): Yeah, uh-huh.
Dre (as Figure): [irritated] Oh— okay.
Janine (as Thisbe): Also, you are not cool, and smoking is not cool. Cori, you're…it’s bad for you. Do not…
Keith (as Eclectic): It’s not bad for me.
Sylvia (as Cori): This one tastes like cotton candy. 
Janine (as Thisbe): I don't know what that is or what that tastes like. You shouldn't eat cotton. It’s a plant.
Dre (as Figure): [sighs] I'm beginning to see how it was easy to sneak in. 
Sylvia: [laughs] And then you just see Asepsis vaping in the background. [Keith and Janine laugh]
Dre: Oh, that was more commentary on someone just being like, “Oh yeah, Asepsis is a Divine,” to a person they just met five minutes ago. [laughs] 
Austin: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Janine: I didn't say— who said Asepsis is a Divine?
Austin: Someone did.
Keith: Uh, I think that it was—
Dre: One of the crew members, I thought.
Keith: Yeah, it was one of the crew. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Yeah, it wasn't me.
Janine: I just said something with Asepsis. Period. 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Yeah. No, it was one of the crew. I don't remember who.
Austin: Probably Hunting.
Keith: Eclectic would know…would’ve known a little bit about Asepsis, probably.
Austin: Yeah, Leap definitely told the Asepsis story, like, seven times, right?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Austin (as Hunting): Anyway, I don't know how we figure out how to help the commander when we don't know where the commander is, or the captain.
Dre (as Figure): [sighs] Can we trace a broadcast signal?
Austin (as Hunting): Which broadcast signal?
Keith (as Eclectic): Someone here doesn't watch “CENTER/Line”.
Austin: That hasn't gone out yet.
Keith: Oh.
Austin: Yeah, we’ll get back…
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: [mock annoyance] Also, it’s not “CENTER/Line”! “CENTER/Line” was canceled! 
Keith: Someone here doesn't watch Five Questions.
Austin: Yeah, it hasn't gone out yet.
Dre: Oh, okay. I'm sorry. I thought that had already happened.
Austin: Mm-mm.
Sylvia: So I'm not making my fancam yet.
Austin: No, you're not yet making your fancam. Correct. 
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre (as Figure): You mentioned in the briefing that there was another ship seen leaving the combuster? Do we have any data on that ship? Can we extrapolate, uh…
Austin (as Hunting): I can run the numbers.
Keith (as Eclectic): Okay, run the numbers.
Austin (as Hunting): I can calculate the vectors. I can…
Dre (as Figure): Okay.
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah.
Austin (as Hunting): Yeah.
Keith (as Eclectic): Determine the trajectories.
Janine (as Thisbe): That is what extrapolation is.
Austin: Type type type type type.
Ali: Are they marketing the episode?
Austin: Oh, yeah, there you go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Oh, I take out— [Sylvia sighs] 
Janine: Is it— that’s just happening, and then someone, like, turns on the radio or something. Like, “Wait a—”
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: “They’re saying there’s gonna be some sort of thing on Sunday.”
Austin: On Sunday, yeah. [Ali laughs] This is a primetime Sunday after the big game, you know? 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: After the big game, 60 Minutes has…
Dre: Tick tick tick tick tick tick tick tick…
Austin: [laughs quietly] Exactly! 100%. Yeah, and I think Hunting can run these numbers in such a way that’s like:
(as Hunting): I think they went out to deep space. They left the system. Not deep space, but they left the system. They went towards the galactic core very quickly.
Keith (as Eclectic): That’s far.
Janine (as Thisbe): We should pursue.
Dre (as Figure): [sighs, defeated] Should we call Gucci?
Austin (as Hunting): [soft] Oh. Gucci doesn't know.
Sylvia (as Cori): [soft] Oh… 
Keith: I mean, someone is messaging Gucci that they heard on the radio or saw on Twitter.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Gucci, your situationship is on TV. [Ali and Austin laugh]
Ali: So is Gucci not coming for movie night this downtime?
Austin: Oh my god. I don't know that—
Ali: Who’s doing movie night?
Janine: She may assign resources.
Sylvia: Well, we’re gonna do a screening of the interview for movie night.
Austin: Ohh.
Janine: Oh.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: That’s good.
Ali: Aw.
Dre: Well, we gotta get Brnine back for that, so that we can make fun of them.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Ali laughs]
Dre: Everybody shows up, they dumped water over their heads to be like, [mocking] “Look, I'm sweaty, just like Brnine. Mur mur mur mur mur.” 
Austin: Oh my god. [Keith and Ali laugh]
Ali: What?
Keith: Look who’s feverish now. [Austin laughs]
Sylvia: [mocking] Oh, my blood is so hollow. [Austin, Ali, and Keith laugh]
Austin: Owned.
Janine: Yikes. 
Austin: We might not know enough for you to do this yet.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Because Brnine isn't there anymore either.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Well, maybe someone should interrupt and say that and say that we've got all these fucking factions that are on fire and that we can't figure out where Brnine is anyway, so we might as well help out.
Austin: Asepsis does. Asepsis interrupts with the, like, broadcasting effectively to the screens that all of these factions have been fucking tapped, that everyone is— I mean, the way that I think Asepsis actually does this is that, uh…
Keith: Can it look like our spreadsheet?
Austin: Yeah, I think it probably looks like that, but it’s…
Keith: Tapped, tapped.
Austin: But it’s…uh, what’s the word I'm looking for?
Janine: We’re just like logging onto our work VPN and getting all our Slack messages at once?
Austin: I mean, I think that’s probably also true. Asepsis broadcasts that all of them are very, um…they are ripe for, you know…I want a word here that isn't literally “purge”. Like, they’re on the— they’re about to be deeply—
Dre: Prune?
Austin: Prune is too natural for it.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: I want it to feel like Lysol, you know? Like, they’re ready to be disinfected, you know? By which I mean, like, they’re weak right now, right? They are ready to be purified. They’re ready to be erased from the world because of how weak they all are.
Keith: Sanitized.
Austin: Yeah, that’s too—
Keith: Pasteurized.
Austin: I don't think— [laughs quietly] I don't think it says “pasteurized.” You know, but like, basically: they’re ready to be purged. They’re ready to be scoured away. They’re like the last—
Dre: Mm.
Austin: You know, we— and it uses the term as if it were…as if it were the thing that was ready to scour them, you know?
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Well, that’s not cool.
Austin: But it is letting you know, “Hey, they need help.” It just talks like this sometimes, you know?
Keith (as Eclectic): Uh, your robot’s… not so great.
Janine: Does it just spray poison in his face? [laughs] 
Austin: No, I don't think it’s actually—
Janine: By the way, psssst! 
Austin: [laughs] Like the Joker acid flower? 
Janine: [laughs] I don't know, it’s just a funny idea. [Keith laughs] I know it doesn't happen. It’s just, like, a good goof in my brain.
Austin: Geez! Uh-huh. [laughs] So yeah, I think as Hunting continues to do the working on the data, that could be the foreground action or, you know, part of the montage as you're trying to untap some of these factions.
Dre: Mm.
Untapping Factions [2:22:35]
Austin: As a reminder, the way this move works is the leading player helps plan the upcoming sortie, adding a d6 to the upcoming Plan and Prepare, so there’s one dice added. They frame a short scene around this, which we've done. During the scene, anyone can spend tokens to choose one: contribute to Plan and Prepare; report on aid they've given to a faction, untapping it; report on intel that they’ve gathered, the director will reveal something useful about the sortie; or volunteer to take point, you'll lead the sortie in confidence.
Keith: Can I have met up with maybe Carmine Bight, since we've got a pirate connection?
Austin: Sure, absolutely.
Keith: And have, like, already helped them on my way here—
Austin: Yeah, spend that token. That’s fine.
Keith: And spend a token to have, like, oh hey, I already did this.
Austin: Yep. I already dropped off some supplies.
Sylvia: That’s a good way to also just be, like, why we trust Eclectic, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah, that makes sense.
Sylvia: Is like, “I did this thing with Carmine Bight on the way here.”
Austin: Yeah, check in with them.
Janine: Purge robot’s out of date.
Austin: Uh-huh. Yes.
Janine: Tap tap tap, updates.
Austin: Mm-hmm. So yeah, I think that makes sense, so go ahead and spend that.
Keith: I do, by the way…I am carrying over— this is not— this doesn't come from Phrygian, but I just also have access to the thing Phrygian had, which is I get an extra token.
Sylvia: Downtime token?
Austin: That’s from the quarters that you have or whatever?
Keith: Yeah, yeah, from quarters.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Did we do hooks? Should I go over hooks, or do we do that later?
Austin: Sure, let’s do hooks. We haven't talked about your hooks.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, why not?
Keith: We haven't talked about hooks. I've got three brand new hooks here. “Leap says pirates steal. If something might be useful, take it.” “Leap says if a broken arm is all that stands between you and some evidence, arms are cheap.” And “Leap says trust him number one, trust myself number two, and trust the Blue Channel number three. Then, trust no one.”
Austin: Great.
Sylvia: This is great.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Dre: Yeah, I love this dude.
Austin: Leap fanboy number one is here.
Janine: Uh-huh.
Austin: Extremely funny. Great. Cool. While you spend that token, I'm gonna spend a token to advance a clock.
Dre: This MF.
Austin: I got as many tokens as you have. And it’s as you're doing this, I'm advancing the Settlers and Reinforcements for the Authority Arrive—whoops—which I'm advancing twice, spending two of my five tokens. Let me make a note of that. Three tokens left. And the way I am doing that or the way that that is visible onscreen is, as you're delivering supplies and stuff, you keep seeing new ships landing here filled with settlers, and you keep coming across new settlements that have spread across the map in ways that are like, wait, this city didn't use to be here. Like, this is an overnight Baseline-style, City City-style city. And all of them have these new factories that are pulling the black from the, you know, the air.
Keith: How are they doing it so fast?
Austin: Great question. Who else is spending a token here to help untap a faction?
Sylvia: I want to, but I'm still figuring out the “how do I help this faction” part of it.
Austin: Sure.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Remember, this stuff doesn't have to be— you don't have to get clever.
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Literally, it’s I'm delivering bananas. I'm helping move crates. I'm…
Sylvia: Would, like, giving information on the Nidean stuff we just fought to one of them count?
Austin: I think it has to be more material than that, right?
Sylvia: More material than that? Okay.
Austin: It has to be you're— you're getting them untapped. You're helping them— remember, the things we've done in the past do range from "I'm carrying crates around for them” to “I'm putting on a show about milk.” [Keith laughs] But you gotta lift the spirits or the— it’s, you know.
Sylvia: Okay. Then maybe I just do a resupply run for Jade Kill?
Austin: Sure. What type of stuff are you bringing them?
Sylvia: I think it is, like, it is both, like…there’s some, like, rations and MREs and stuff in there, [Austin: Yeah.] but it is mostly, like— because they’re, like, the military group.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Like, the most militaristic group I can think of within— like, in terms of approach necessarily. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Yep, 100%.
Sylvia: Not ideology.
Austin: Eh, both maybe.
Sylvia: I mean, I don't know specifically.
Austin: They’re up there. 
Sylvia: I just don’t…
Austin: Yeah. Yeah.
Sylvia: We’ve got a bunch— I don't want to speak for the other factions.
Austin: I get you.
Sylvia: They might want to lay claim, you know?
Austin: Yep, mm-hmm.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: But yeah, just bringing them, like, ammunition, more fuel, shit like that.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Janine: I can help Grey Pond.
Austin: Sure.
Janine: I think maybe as part of our, like, getting caught up on stuff that’s happened, [Austin: Yeah.] there’s maybe, like… [laughs quietly] on the BBS or something, a pocket of like, “Hey, what do we do about—” I want to say that, like, maybe part of what’s happened here is like, because they’re suppliers, a lot of that is like, you need to make sure you're getting what you need, but you also need to make sure you're getting it out on time.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: And not just, like, to deliver it on time, but deliver it so it doesn't go bad.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Janine: And there is maybe, like, a sort of backlog of stuff that’s, like, kind of going bad, and it’s like, what the fuck do we do? And they just need someone to, like, do some math.
Austin: Sure. Fix the logistics. Yeah.
Janine: To just, like, sit down and logistically be like, “Okay, change this. You need to send this to them instead.”
Austin: Right.
Janine: “You need to send this over here.”
Austin: This has to go out today.
Janine: They just need someone to be computer for them.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. You get to be computer. Love to be a computer.
Janine: On the BBS.
Austin: Uh-huh. [Dre laughs] That leaves us with Violet Cove and Rose River, which do we just not have tokens for them?
Dre: No, I still have two.
Austin: Oh, you still have two.
Dre: I have two tokens left, yeah.
Austin: Oh, damn.
Dre: What’s going on at Rose River?
Austin: I think mostly licking their wounds from a defeat a little while ago, when Occam Olio beat their brakes off. [Dre and Keith laugh] Somehow beat a Divine with an ambush? You know, sometimes the dice, the dice do things.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, I don't know that we've had a big check-in with them recently. I do think that they…their spirits are high, or maybe their spirits aren't high, but this is a big win, right? And so, like, everybody is happy about that, but they’re still just beat down and stretched thin, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: I'm trying to remember what the last thing that they did was, and I think it was try to stop Exanceaster March from getting one of the Fundament Nodes in their territory, and they lost that, you know?
Keith: Blue Channel pulls out a big win, and everyone else gets tapped. Sounds familiar.
Austin: That is what happened. They tried—
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Really the thing that happened in the downtime or in the conflict turn was that they tried to fell the Diadem Gravtrain, and they failed. Because you'll note—
Keith: Right.
Austin: I mean, here’s the thing about what your next mission is. 
Keith: Oh, yeah, it’s great. We’re in a great position.
Austin: You could go try to fell the Diadem Gravtrain. You could go try to fell the Paint Shop, right? You could go try to stop Motion from being revived. You could go try to save Brnine.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Who is missing right now, fully.
Keith: And you know what the, uh…what can't happen in the faction turn.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Is they can't— Kesh can't use [Austin: Correct.] their move to immediately remove grip from one of these factions.
Austin: They can't save both of them. Yeah, exactly. I mean, the other thing that is happening here, and it just hasn't happened yet, right? It’ll happen during the next conflict turn, and for those of you that haven't listened yet, the Bilateral Intelligence Service is being replaced. 
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Bilateral Intelligence Service is out.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: And, in fact, Stel Nideo is becoming the major faction here.
Keith: Right.
Austin: And there’s a new Kesh sub-faction coming to replace the BIS. So, you'll see.
Keith: So, one of the…Nideo moves from minor to major.
Austin: Correct.
Keith: Kesh moves from major to minor.
Austin: Major to minor. Correct.
Keith: And the Bilateral Intelligence Service gets replaced with a new thing.
Austin: Yep. A new thing.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Correct.
Dre: Oof.
Austin: Which I'll tease at the end of us recording. I mean, people who’ve already listened know what it is, but, you know, it hasn't happened yet over on this side of the timeline.
Keith: Yeah. I listened to a version that didn't have any of the extra stuff on it, so I didn't hear any of that.
Austin: Well, there isn't any. I mean, you know what it is. I'm not talking about extra stuff. I'm saying, over here, I'll tease it by saying— [Keith: Oh.] by, like, describing a sequence, you know?
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: But you know. If you listened to those episodes, you know who it is. You should. It’s fine.
Keith: [sighs] Maybe I just forgot.
Austin: You just forgot. It’s fine.
Dre: Can I propose to help Rose River by showing up and doing a training montage with them?
Austin: Oh, that’s fun. What are you training them to do? Especially—
Keith: You tell them it’s gonna be a montage? [laughs] 
Dre: Yeah. It’s over before they even realize it.
Keith: While I'm describing this to you! 
Dre: Yeah. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: It’ll be intercut with images of you having already done it.
Austin: Yeah, what are you training them on?
Dre: Oh, to be better pilots.
Austin: [laughs quietly] Damn. Get ‘em.
Dre: Well, not like that. [Keith laughs] But like, that’s what Figure’s good at, right?
Austin: But what’s— yeah, so are you taking them through the simulator? You don't have a mech right now.
Dre: Yeah, sure.
Austin: Is this where the mech shows up, or is that still…?
Dre: No, I don't think so.
Austin: Okay.
Dre: Either a simulator, or I just use one of theirs.
Austin: Yeah. While you're doing this—
Dre: Mm-hmm?
Austin: Constantly talking to you. Gur Sevraq is like:
(as Gur Sevraq): It is good that you're helping to train them for the field of battle, but you must prepare their minds as well. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Dre (as Figure): Sure.
Keith: (For the [reetee tears] ??? 2:32:04)
Austin (as Gur Sevraq): For the real battle is inside.
Dre (as Figure): Oh, sure.
Austin (as Gur Sevraq): The Divine Principality does war on their soul.
Dre (as Figure): Oh. Do you have ideas?
Austin (as Gur Sevraq): [huffs] Oh, my friend.
Dre (as Figure): [dismayed] Oh, shit.
Austin (as Gur Sevraq): So many ideas. [Sylvi laughs]
Austin: And here’s the other thing. You're the Wither now. You do have this move that, you know, the Gur Sevraq part of it’s fun. Cold Company.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Gur is not the only ghost you see here on Palisade. Right now, they’re the only one that follows you like this, but when you move—
Keith: Wow, we’re about to meet the “or more specters.”
Austin: Uh-huh. When you move through these battlefields, there are other dead who linger. And you don't know if that’s true everywhere in the Divine Principality, if that’s how it works, or if this is part of being on a place that is a Divine or was a Divine, the corpse of a Divine, or the now not corpse—? It’s very hard to say what Palisade itself is, at this point. Or that you're so close to the Twilight Mirage, which was kind of a haunted space in many ways already, or what, but there are other beings—specters, ghosts, or ghouls—from the past. It’s hard to look at. Or maybe it isn't, but you do take disadvantage [laughs] until you succeed at a roll with ten plus.
Dre: Mm-hmm. Yep, yep.
Austin: Yeah, spend your token. Helping them out. Taking them through the sim.
Dre: Sure.
Austin: Giving them tips. Appreciate it. They appreciate it. There’s, like, a— we don't have to zoom in here, but I think there’s an opportunity for you talking to Rose River people, [Dre: Mm-hmm.] because some of them are from the New Earth Hegemony, and they got stuck in a cryosleep tube until now, and so that’s some ancient history, so I don't know if any of the historian part of you, you know, tips up. 
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Austin: Also, you know who’s here? Is Partial Palisade. This is where Partial has been hanging out.
Dre: Oh!
Austin: You check in with Partial at all?
Dre: Yeah!
Austin: What’s the—
Dre: A lot has changed, huh?
Austin: Yeah. I think so. Where do you find Partial Palisade?
Dre: [sighs] Last time we saw him, he was just always farming.
Austin: Yeah. That’s true.
Keith: And you were mad. Or was that the time before the last time?
Dre: Um, I don't think I was there for the last time.
Austin: Last time, Thisbe went.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Oh, no, sorry, I was just saying last time it was Figure and Partial.
Dre: Yes.
Austin: Mm. So yeah, farming. You just walk on over? What’s the vibe? What’s the hello? What’s the opening salvo? What do we see?
Dre: Um, yes, walk on over with some sort of gardening tool in hand and just silently, like, kind of settle in to do work next to him.
Austin (as Partial): Figure. You look different.
Dre (as Figure): I feel different. Better.
Austin (as Partial): You look better. You got a glow. Not a lot of people keep a glow around here.
Dre (as Figure): It helps when your life force is no longer chained to a person who doesn't care if you live or die.
Austin (as Partial): Congratulations. I think.
Dre (as Figure): Thank you.
Austin (as Partial): I won't dig into it too much. Seems like a momentous occasion.
Dre: [sighs] Ali, god damnit. [laughs] 
Ali: Sowwy. [Dre, Sylvia, and Keith laugh]
Dre: Ah, Ali just sent, “trauma dumping.”
Austin: Uh-huh. Uh-huh. [Ali laughs]
Dre: Fine.
Austin: Mm-hmm. [laughs quietly] 
Dre (as Figure): [sighs] How are you?
Austin (as Partial): I don't have the glow about me, but I'm doing okay. I, um…I told you, I think, the thing I wanted most was to get to work, to help people. I've been doing it. I wonder if I could do more sometime. If I was my old self, this would all be over. I'm not. That’s all right. But I do…I see people suffer in ways that they don't need to or wouldn't need to if I had the power I used to have, if I was the being I was, but I'm not. So I help in the ways I can, and uh…I try my best not to beat myself up about it. There are days I feel lesser than. They had big hopes. Seems like there’s more hope in the air today, after—
Dre (as Figure): If you'd like…
Austin (as Partial): Hmm?
Dre (as Figure): You could come with us.
Austin (as Partial): On that ship? I don't know the first thing about ships.
Dre (as Figure): You could learn.
Austin: He nods a little, you know. Does a little, like, [thinking noise] thinking about it, turn my head. You know, I'm considering it now.
(as Partial): What’s in the near future for y'all? 
Dre (as Figure): [sighs] 
Austin (as Partial): What am I signing up for?
Dre (as Figure): Well, there’s a new guy, and he says that…he says it looks like there’s a group that’s trying to bring Motion back.
Austin (as Partial): Motion, eh…I didn't know a Motion.
Dre (as Figure): Hmm. A Divine—
Austin (as Partial): That figures.
Dre (as Figure): —that was supposedly gone. Also, the captain’s gone, so we have to find them.
Austin (as Partial): Well, that’s a problem.
Dre (as Figure): You're beginning to see why we could use an extra set of hands.
Austin: Kind of, like, looking around the farm.
(as Partial): You know? Maybe just for this one. Try it on. Get my hands dirty. Let me say some goodbyes. I think they know I was, uh, getting a little itchy, sticking around here, so I don't think it’ll be a big surprise.
Keith: Hey, we got a second Divine.
Austin: [laughs quietly] Sort of. Partially.
Keith: We got sort of a second— yeah. [laughs] 
Dre: Oh, I see what you did.
Austin: Yeah. All right. Any other token spends here? We can go ahead and advance that clock, Dre.
Dre: Gosh, I do have another token still.
Austin: And Sylvi still could do that other scene. Keith has a—
Keith: This is that same move, right?
Austin: Yes. Mm-hmm.
Dre: Okay.
Keith: And who’s still tapped?
Austin: Uh, let me make sure I…
Dre: Violet Cove.
Austin: Yeah, just Violet Cove. Classic Violet Cove.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Those troublemakers.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Dre: So, let’s see. I can volunteer to take point, or I— hmm. Report on intel they’ve gathered.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Dre: I guess, before I pick there, should we pick what the sortie we’re gonna be on is?
Austin: I think we kind of have to figure out what the rest of the Brnine stuff is before we pick.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Because you could pick “go rescue Brnine,” [Dre: Sure.] and then the result of this next scene could make that… [Ali laughs quietly] You know, irrelevant. You might have to pick a different one. We’ll see how it goes. I don't know.
Dre: Sure, yeah.
Ali: Huh?
Dre: All right.
Austin: Brnine.
Keith: I'll throw in a d6 for Plan and Prepare.
Austin: [crosstalk] Oh, go ahead. All right.
Keith: Using one token. So, I have one scene and one token remaining.
Austin: And that comes from doing just, like, contributing to the planning. You're looking at data. You're looking at information. You're a detective.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. I love that. That’s good.
[“Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt plays]