PALISADE 55: A Palette of Colors Pt. 10
Transcriber: vesta
Recap        1
Introduction        3
Brnine’s Epilogue        8
[00:09:22]        8
[00:21:05]        14
August’s Epilogue        22
[00:31:55]        22
Cori’s Epilogue        28
[00:45:10]        28
Leap’s Epilogue        42
[01:04:08]        42
Clementine’s Epilogue        46
[01:09:44]        46
Thisbe’s Epilogue        50
[01:15:32]        50
Levi’s Epilogue        56
[01:28:07]        56
[01:44:50]        65
Someone Shows Up        70
[01:52:39]        70
Recap
Austin: PALISADE is a show about empire, revolution, settler colonialism, politics, religion, war, and the many consequences thereof. For a full list of content warnings, please check the episode description.
[music intro - “See All Of This” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Jack: I had a worms-based idea? But— 
Austin: Huh?
Jack: You know, like a classic worms-based idea?
[Sylvi laughs]
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Austin: We have this— We talked about them as being having to do with communication, particularly? But we talked about them being that if you had two schools of resonant minnows, they're quantum entangled. And they then they can reach between like, past the Mirage. And part of the reason that you fish them in the Mirage, is to keep them from getting out of the Mirage? Because someone could use them for nefarious ends if they got outside the mirage, basically. 
Austin (as Hunting): Are you taking—are you taking your movies with you? 
Austin: Asks Hunting.
[Art chuckles, Ali wheezes]
Ali (as Brnine): No, I'm coming back. That's the whole thing.
Austin (as Hunting): Oh! Okay.
Ali (as Brnine): I'm going out there to come back.
Janine (as unknown crew): Well, you're the one who said last—
Keith (Leap): Going out there to come back—
Ali (as Brnine): I misspoke! It's my last movie night. I'll have other movie nights.
Janine (as unknown crew): But—so it’s not—!
Austin (as Hunting): But you're coming back—
Art: You just said it was the last movie night!
[Janine laughs]
Austin (as Hunting): Is it my ship or not?
Ali (as Brnine): This is confusing.
Keith (as Leap): I thought it was going to be my ship.
Ali (as Brnine): Why did you think that?
Sylvi: The thing of getting the consecrated land and making sure that that's like secure, and is like taken root in Palisade, is like the proof Cori needs to feel confident going out of, going off Palisade. 
Austin: That she can go do something like that in the world beyond, that’s fun.
Sylvi: Yeah, because like you can't cut off the head of the snake from here, right? 
Austin: You sure can’t.
Sylvi: Like there's just, there's only so much you can do on Palisade and it's—I don't know if she can necessarily say, oh, it's in good hands now, but it's in better hands. [Austin: Uh huh.] So yeah, it's her and Elle start making a plan trying to figure out where to ship off to. Cause it can go anywhere, right?
Austin: What she was promised is a one-way ticket anywhere in the galaxy.
Screen pops up. Puts in a code, it verifies that it’s her. And then there is a loud sound, as the Divine Present teleports in. Present, of course, one of the founding members of The Pact of Necessary Venture. 
Sylvi: Oh, fuck!
Austin: She moves not of her own will. 
Sylvi: [whispering] Oh fuck!
Austin: When she steps down the stairs, she does so clearly in distress. Clearly in compulsion. She signed a contract.
You, along with Elle, and Gallica, and Present—who have to give this the best of their ability—are trying to navigate to the center of the galaxy.
Sylvi: I think they make—so, hear me out on this. I think they make it to Perennial, but the ship's like fucked. Kind of like drifting in space fucked.
Austin: Yeah, you get there. It fights you all the way there, you know?
[music ends]
Introduction
Austin: And that's our last scene.
Art: Oh, we get some bonus fortune right now?
Austin: Well, Questlandia ends after each player has taken three turns. Your story and the story of the kingdom are then concluded with an epilogue. First, check on the state of the kingdom.
For each trouble at six or higher, everyone marks misfortune. Such severe troubles are catastrophic for the kingdom and everyone within it. Hey, that's nothing! We do not have any sixes.
Dre: Yay!
Austin: On the other hand, if there are no troubles at six or higher, everyone marks fortune. Perhaps this kingdom will persist. So everybody mark one fortune. People should have down their final fortune/misfortune. Players take turns telling their part of the epilogue. These turns can be taken in any order.
On your turn, begin by taking white and black tokens to match the fortune and misfortune marked in your character sheet. Arrange the tokens in a row in front of you. Start with a fortune token, if you have any, and alternate between fortune and misfortune.
If you have an unbalanced mix of fortune and misfortune, [Sylvi chuckles] your row may end with a string of consecutive white or black tokens. Using these tokens, you'll tell a story of mixed fortune. For each fortune token, you'll narrate how something goes right for your characters. The other players will narrate each misfortune token. Describing how things go wrong. 
And I read this bit before—but is a way of making sure we're on the same page, but again, this is on page 79—Desiree begins her epilogue with a fortune token. “Though I never found the final rainbow gemstone, I found true love in the pale arms of the vampire matriarch.”
Sylvi: Good for her.
Austin: And then Gilly says, “But your dark past continued to haunt you. After a few short months, the vampire hunters come and took your matriarch away.” And then Desiree says, “Alas, but the vampires and I launched a daring rescue.”
If you like, you can begin each narration with fortunately or unfortunately. Keep these to just a few sentences. As each token is narrated, slide it forward to show that it's been used. Continue the story until there's just one last token. That final token is special. It describes an outcome for the kingdom.
Desiree's final token is a fortune. As we all laughed before, “Fortunately my forgiving matriarch blesses the kingdom. Vampires protect our people and take very little blood in return.” [chuckles]
What you consider fortunate or unfortunate for your kingdom is a matter of interpretation. A collapse might be fortunate for those living under a tyrannical government. After the kingdom's fate is described, the next player begins their epilogue. Once everyone's told their epilogue, your story is complete. 
So, there's more examples and stuff if you need more guidance on pages 80 and 81, but, you know. Uh, whew!
Keith: Doing the math on these numbers.
Austin: Um, mhm. Do you all want actual tokens to line up in front of you?
Keith: No, I've already got mine.
Jack: I’ve just written fortune and misfortune underneath each of my circles to represent the tokens.
Keith: You can—you can drag each individual drawing and I've just done that.
Austin: You can do that.
Jack: Oh, I didn't want to deal with that.
Art: Oh, sure.
Ali: I have been trying to do that all night and I have not been able to. It drives me crazy that my lines don't— my circles—
Janine: You all laughed at me for using moon emojis, and yet, here we are.
Jack: [chuckles] And yet.
[Dre chuckles]
Sylvi: Who's all—?
[Ali giggles]
Keith: Oh yeah, I was actually laughing at everyone else for not using moon emojis. 
Austin: I'm already doing it, I’m already doing it, it's easy. Because we've got to make— oh, you were writing. I see, I see now. Now I see. Yeah.
Keith: Friday, Monday, Friday, Monday, Friday, Monday, Monday.
Ali: [groaning] That's how it feels, isn't it?
Austin: It is how it feels.
Keith: Yeah, that is life.
[Ali wheezes, Keith chuckles]
Sylvi: I'm just trying to figure out the flow of my—
Austin: It starts at a fortune—it always starts on a fortune. [Keith: Yeah.] And then,
Sylvi: Always starts on a fortune? Okay.
Austin: It always starts on a fortune, that's the thing. 
Sylvi: Okay, so I'm going to have...
Austin: Yes.
Sylvi: [laughing] Four in a row!
Austin: Yes.
[Sylvi howls with laughter]
Keith: Yeah, you are not the only one, so don't worry.
Austin: Start with a fortune token is what it says.
Sylvi: Man, next season Cori is going to be grizzled.
Austin: This is— a little wild.
Sylvi: Yeah. Fucking showing up with a cigar and an eye patch.
Janine: You mean like the Jumanji guy.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Dre: Ohhh.
Austin: Who wants to go first?
Ali: I'm— I’m willing to go back to a— seating order, and have me go first if that feels easy?
Jack: Yeah, let's do the seating order.
Keith: I'm fine with that.
Austin: Okay.
Brnine’s Epilogue
[00:09:22]
Ali: Sure, okay. I'm starting with a fortune! 
Austin: Wooo!
Ali: Yeah, wah, woo!
[short cheers around the table.]
Ali: Wahu! What's my fortune? What's my first fortune? I think that Brnine, given their noto…rority—how do you pronounce that? I don’t know.
Keith, Dre, Art: Notoriety?
[Ali laughs]
Dre: Notororety.
Janine: Noto-rawr-ity?
Dre: Cornhorn!
Sylvi: Noto-rawr-ity is when you have notoriety, but you're scene.
[Ali giggles]
Dre: Jesus.
Keith: I thought it was notoriety, but you're also a notary public.
Ali: That's what Brnine is now—no! [giggles] I do think that based on the success of the Blue Channel on Palisade, they end up sort of being like, a sort of like squadron leader at that Millennium Break base that they set up?
Austin: Mm. Mhm!
Ali: That like, flag station outside of the Twilight Mirage? [Austin: Cool.] I'm sure that's fun for them. You know, they have the experience for it.
Austin: Unfortunately, what happens? What's our unfortunate?
Janine: Is Brnine still hanging out with like, Jesset and stuff?
Austin: Presumably..? I don't— I don’t have like a narrative reason to say that they would stop talking is what I mean, so.
Janine: I was gonna say that like, unfortunately, maybe Jesset remains pretty bitter and like, doesn't go back to just murdering people? But there's a lot of tension in that relationship. I don't know if that's the kind of thing we are talking about here, but—
Austin: I think that's certainly in the realm, you know? And then, Ali gets to have a fortunately here, right? So— that's one way of thinking about these is, let's think about these as actions that happen in a row, instead of ongoing truths. Does that make sense? 
Janine: Mmm.
Austin: So, like, unfortunately, Jesset storms out one day, you know? If we think about them as beats, instead of being like inevitable truths that are fundamental. Like, and then here's the state of the world, because of the way that we have to bounce back and forth with these. I am now looking at some of the other examples to see if there's like, other guidance.
Keith: Well, that's like— the vampire one was sort of like that.
Austin: Exactly, exactly.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: Yeah. And that's also how the game “Fortunately, Unfortunately” is played when you're in acting class.
Austin: Oh, okay. [Ali chuckles]
Austin: So yeah, so maybe there's a particular thing. Janine, do you have any thoughts on like, what the thing Jesset does is?
Janine: I was going to say that maybe Jesset uses the ship to like— there's some sort of like smuggling thing [Austin: Mmm.] that is like, not killing people, but like smuggling weapons to a sort of civilian militia that's something— something like,
Austin: You know, like puts the base at threat in some way because of this?
Janine: Yeah. It's like a thing of like— the thing that comes to mind is like when Waco happened, and then a bunch of like reclusive groups, even if they weren't aligned in beliefs with Waco? Took that up as a thing of like, well, that— it's going to happen to us next, so we need to stockpile stuff. We need to stockpile weapons and stockpile—you know. And a thing of like facilitating that, maybe becoming like, some kind of like arms dealer for people that Jesset views as like, cool, but kind of extreme still?
Austin: Who are not aligned with the Millennium Break specifically.
Janine: I think, you know— I think it's like— no, it can't be, it can't be like Cause people. [Austin: Right.] I think it would be like civilians that Jesset agrees with, kind of thing.
Austin: But who are not like part of the structure of Millennium Break, but are like vigilantes who are going to do it their own way, [Janine: Yeah.] which means that they might not, you know, have the same priorities.
Janine: People who even like, disagree in the same way that Jesset disagreed with like, why are you still hanging out with Clem, etc.
Austin: Yep, yeah. Sure.
Ali: Oh, it's sort of like leap frog jumping the cause.
Austin: Right.
Janine: Yeah, it's no longer like, who do we want to help, who aligns with us. It is who do I think is going to do a good thing if I give them this gun.
Austin: Yeah. Which also means that those supplies are getting skimmed off of Millennium Break supplies, right?
Janine: Yeah, yeah. The chain of custody on that stuff is all fucked up.
Austin: Brnine?
Ali: Sure. Yeah, now it feels weird because I don't know if I should be responding to that directly or...
Austin: You absolutely can. 
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Or you can choose not to. Again, the example was, the big example of the book was, the vampires got attacked or whatever—the vampire hunters came and took your matriarch away—and then the response was, but the rest of the vampires and I launched a rescue, right? So you can totally respond to your misfortunes by saying, aha, but I've overcome that! You know?
Ali: Sure, yeah. Yeah, it feels like one of those would be a successful sort of Palisade story again, though, right?
Austin: No, these first—these ones are about you.
Janine: We could also scratch the— if the Jesset thing conflicts with that victory that we had, you know. I don't want to, like, undo a win, if we want to redirect to something else for that misfortune.
Ali: Oh, no, that's, I was just— um, sure, yeah. I, the thing that I was saying there is that I think that, like, the fortunately part of that would be like, Jesset's instincts are kind of good. [Austin: Mmm.] Like, Jesset would fund people and they would liberate themselves and not have this, like, sort of, compromise or, like, big, long, you know, setup of the building of the cause and naming all of those people and the mechanics of that.
Austin: Is that something that Brnine takes part in? Or is that just, hey, the good news is, it kind of worked out. Jesset didn't fuck up with who he went on to support.
Ali: Um, yeah. I mean, I— this might be the tension of the setup for me, is that I think Brnine would be a part of that, but it, you know, it's looking away from Brnine to respond to that. You know what I mean? So, maybe that's the wrong instinct.
Austin: I don't know— well, I think that the— if the thing that happened is Jesset, like, did this behind Brnine's back, [Ali: Right, uh huh.] you know, then the follow up could be, and then Brnine found out and involved themselves to make sure it went right, you know?
Ali: Right, yeah. Which feels fine to me, so I feel comfortable saying that.
Austin: Which brings us back to another misfortune, or unfortunately—
Jack: Brnine is constantly being asked to choose between new causes to throw themselves behind, you know? The captain of the Blue Channel left, as far as we can tell, liberated Palisade, and now returns, and it's like, your phone is ringing off the hook.
Ali: Sure, yeah, I know texting was such a stressful part of this whole season. That’s a really tough—you found my kryptonite. [wheezes]
Jack: Brnine's phone is blowing up. [Ali continues laughing] And it starts as congratulations, right? It's you know like, all we can— all we can say is, well done for your courage and your bravery. And then pretty quickly turns to like, there is a planet that— whose name we have never mentioned on the show, that is going through the same thing that Palisade is going through.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: And it's like, you did it before, so you know how to do it.
Ali: Mhm. Yeah, I think that the fortunately through line there would be, as taxing as that is, and as much as it wasn't a— well no, I mean, that was the thing Brnine saw for themselves—Brnine was a character who said, all of these other people who would have done a better job than me are dead, so I have to do the best job that I can?—would have the instinct to answer those calls.
I do think the fortunate part of that is that like maybe, that responsibility comes with also those resources? [Austin: Mmm.] Like instead of Brnine going from, I have the Blue Channel, now I have this fishing ship, and now I have this base, i's like, I have a fleet under me. The Blue Channel works for me again. I'm not on the Blue Channel a lot of times, but I communicate with that team pretty often because they're part of what's on my map. 
Austin: Right.
Ali: What's— my chessboard. Yeah, you know. 
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: It’s better than nothing. [chuckles]
Jack: Yeah, the response, if I'm wrong, sort of does sound like, yeah, I guess I did do it before. Alright, where am I going?
Ali: [chuckles] Or who can I— who can I best bring to you? [Jack: Right.] If I physically can't.
Keith: Can we— can I get a short version of what that one was?
Jack: Oh, everybody now wants Brnine to liberate their own planet. 
Keith: That was the fortunately?
Austin: That was the unfortunately.
Keith: The fortunately is that Brnine's fine with that?
Jack: And has the resources.
Austin: And gets a promotion.
Ali: Right. [Dre: Mmm!] That Brnine would be stretched really thin, but would also not have to physically be there.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: And the unfortunately is it goes back. The unfortunately is—the following of this one next unfortunately is—they have the resources, they're put in a better position of command, they have the right— it's this, they relive Palisade. They have a whole fucking year of this. And it just doesn't come together in the end. They have to pull out. And maybe it goes well the next time, maybe it doesn't, you know. We have another unfortunately to go. But people die. You help some people along the way. 
But it doesn't— you don't overturn the local authority. And part of it is the world is changing. And the local authority isn't as clean as, oh, it's this fucked up— these fucked up glass Kesh people who are so clearly, obviously tyrants. The world that you live in now in the years that have passed have made things more complex, and some people are more reactionary or want more stability, or it—
You're prepared for it. You have more resources. You don't mind doing it. It just doesn't come together.
Ali: That's the breaks, yeah.
[00:21:05]
Austin: And then the final misfortune is about the kingdom. So again, their example there is “the vampires help people”. Some other examples here on the final one, “Fortunately, at the base of every new water wheel, mushrooms have begun to grow in the damp soil. There's food and renewed hope for the mountain folk.” That's a positive one. 
Here's an example, unfortunately, at the end. “Unfortunately, the revolution was violent and destructive. Many mountain folk perished trying to protect the orchards and fungal fields”. Or, another negative one. [Sylvi: Oh no.] “Ultimately, Aerie decided to leave the kingdom for lands unknown. He may have found a better life, but his departure plunged Rukeri into chaos and paranoia.” Some pretty big ones here. Also, these examples are so funny because the people here have— have two fortune, one misfortune, or two and two. [Ali giggles] The most they have is two and two.
Jack: I have a proposal here that we could do some work on. Which is that, Brnine is kind of a great man of history?
Austin: Mhm.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Brnine, for all the stories that we tell about the collective power of revolution, Brnine can just teleport into the Queen's spaceship and kill them instantly? You know Brnine has now led— first begun and then led a revolution on another planet? And whether or not that's Brnine leading the thing, the fact of the matter is that you know, when Captain Brnine is flying the Blue Channel around the planet that you're on, things go pretty well for you. And they're not here anymore, they've left. Is that an angle there? That like Brnine is kind of singular.
Austin: I thought you were going to go somewhere else with this, which is that there's a… not a literal cult of Brnine, or even a figurative actual one.
Jack: Oh, god.
Austin: But that there is a sort of like hero…
[Keith cackling]
Jack: Could you imagine? They'd hate it.
Austin: People believe in heroes in a bad way.
Janine: I thought this was going to be like, a Gru Minions thing.
Austin: Right, the minions exist now and follow Brnine around.
Janine: Brnine has minions, [Keith chuckles] we know this.
Dre: Banana!
Janine: Brnine's had minions all season.
Austin: That's true.
Keith: Yeah there's a— there’s a group full of people that follow around the most Brnine person on earth.
Austin: But— yeah sorry, what I did think you were going towards, Jack, was like, whether it means to or not the Cause and Palisade finds itself looking for other heroes. And not finding them, because Brnine is one of one, again. Like Grand Magnificent.
Art: Brnine and Grand Magnificent, the two characters that people always mention together.
Dre: Mhm, mhm.
Sylvi: Yup.
Jack: Yeah, I mean, I'd be up for that. I don’t think it’s like—
Austin: I’m trying to think of other— I'd be happy to go elsewhere, too.
Jack: I don't think we're like... sorry, did someone else have something to say?
Austin: Nuh-uh.
Keith: Oh, the elsewhere that it could be is like, we started the season with Millennium Break and the Cause being, you know, terrorists, and people being repulsed by our tactics and our outlook? And, you know, we've had a fairly successful run on Palisade. But if Brnine is going out and like, helping out a bunch of other planets and failing, then it could be a return to, like a widespread galaxy spanning anti-Millennium Break media campaign painting us again as terrorists, and—
Austin: I think that's... I think it's maybe too big for two reasons. The first is that we have a bunch of additional epilogues coming that could counter that. But second is, it’s—
Keith: But isn't that part of the point them?
Austin: Well, that wouldn't be a particular event, which is why I'm saying we should try to get it to particular events, right, if we can. [Keith: Okay.] And the second thing is it should be about Palisade. The kingdom is Palisade, right?
So the final one in each of these has to be about the kingdom, and the kingdom is Palisade. Which is why I think the idea that, like, the culture on Palisade ends up changing in some way makes more sense than, the culture in the galaxy, the belief of everyone in the— you know what I mean? I think that's too big for this.
Jack: Yeah, is it— is it the people of Palisade, and to a lesser extent, the remaining Millennium Break on Palisade, start looking for heroes?
Austin: Is that a misfortune enough for us?
Jack: I mean...
Keith: It feels a little light, I think.
Jack: I'd like to go somewhere between that and... what did they say, paranoia and chaos? I'd like a little lighter than that, but probably more than, like— I want to, you know.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: I think I can turn this into an event that's still in the spirit of this.
Austin: Mhm?
Janine: A trend could emerge, like, a thing of like, cults of personality become popular. Gurus become popular.
Austin: Mmm.
Sylvi: Oh, fuck.
Janine: Like, there is a wave of, like, much in the way there is currently a wave of, like, influences in various categories, selling courses and stuff, like, that begins to propagate, because people are looking for someone who they can look up— [Austin: Ohh, yeah.] you know, people are looking for heroes.
Austin: Ohh, this is—
Janine: People are looking for heroes, but they're looking for heroes that they can have immediate action in their lives at a personal level. 
Austin: Have I ever talked to you about—
Janine: They want a person to save them.
Austin: Have I ever talked to you about the tragedy of Char from Gundam?
[Jack chuckles]
Austin: At the end of Mobile Suit—
Sylvi: Is this your Darth Plagueis?
Austin: Yeah—at the end of Mobile Suit Gundam, Char disappears. Char is the de facto heir of the kind of space throne? Char's father was the like, revolutionary hero whose ideology was misappropriated by the space Nazis in Gundam. And instead of—he spends that whole season fighting the main characters, but also slowly assassinating the family that killed his parents, right?—and instead of stepping into leadership in the public and being like, hey, there's parts of our revolutionary space movement that we could regain, and we could actually get people the food that they need and the supplies that they need and political autonomy, he disappears. And he ends up becoming— he changes his name, he wears big sunglasses, he joins an anti-fascist militia who become the kind of heroes of the second season.
And then towards the middle end of the second season, he finally goes, hey, I'm changing my name back—actually, he doesn't even change his name back—he says, hey, I'm the good guy, I'm the important guy, I should have stepped up, sorry I didn't step up. But it's too fucking late. He doesn't become the hero people needed, and instead everyone starts filling the gaps with other people, right? And then by the time it's all over, his only option is to be a kind of shithead about it all in the end. And by then it's too late. And there was a sort of like, abandonment of responsibility.
I'm not saying, Brnine, you abandoned your responsibility here, but in your absence on Palisade, I love the idea that people are like, ooh, who— who has it? Who's the one who has the action? Who's the one who's holding our collective movie night for us as a leader? [Sylvi chuckles] And that's just like not a way to— that's not what they need, you know? And people take advantage of that. And some people are just not good at it, also. No offense to like– I'm not saying Hunting fucks up here necessarily, but like, yeah, I love the idea that influencer culture sneaks in, and lots of people get good at giving speeches, you know? But they're like kind of empty speeches, which isn't what your thing was anyway, but that's the way people talk about you, you know? Someone says that like, that they could be the hero that Palisade needs, but that's just like their election slogan, you know?
Janine: Yeah, there's also a bit of like tent revival on this.
Austin: Yeah. Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: There's a song about the Blue Channel that gets popular, and it's like a stand-in for the idea that like, what we need is this style of like can-do attitude, which is not what the Blue Channel is really about, but you know.
Sylvi: Cult of Devotion were real trendsetters, huh?
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. God, I bet some of those motherfuckers are in on it.
Sylvi: Oh, most definitely, right?
Austin: Some people who slipped the net.
Ali: Yeah, once you start talking about culture, you think back to the Paint Shop, huh?
Austin: Uh huh.
Jack: [chuckles] Oh, god.
Austin: Which, like, the whole power of the Paint Shop was that they were just doing stuff people responded positively to anyway, right? People wanted to have festivals, [chuckles] you know? So, cool.
Jack: Make them audit their culture.
Keith: Just a structure question. I thought—and I could just be wrong—that the last token goes into a pool and then we do all the kingdom stuff at the end?
Austin: That is not the case.
Keith: Or are we just going— okay, we just go straight through?
Austin: As each…
Keith: So, it doesn't do the same thing where you have to order them by fortune, misfortune, until you’re out of.
Austin: I don't see anything in the book about that at all. [Keith: Okay.] If you do, tell me because I would, that’s—
Keith: I just— it’s what I remembered and then I just didn't look.
Art: No, it's just that your last one has to be about—
Austin: Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Who's up?
Jack: I think it’s me.
Austin: Final image of Brnine, I guess, was— is that. Is a big Brnine statue being raised somewhere on Palisade.
[Ali snorts]
Jack: God.
Keith: Statue sweating.
[Sylvi laughs]
Jack: What's the— what’s the final image of Brnine in actuality?
Ali: Oh, um. Sure. [laughs]
Keith: To death?
Jack: No, no, no! You know what I mean.
Ali: I guess just working, right? Like that's what we've set up.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Having a good time at one of those new movie nights.
Austin: Well, maybe not even here from what we've understood, right? The new movie night’s happening on Palisade; it sounded like Brnine was being deployed to different planets. You know, if Brnine is deployed again, did they step back up to the plate and say, alright, stack ‘em up—stack ‘em up’s wrong—rack ‘em up.
Keith: Stack ‘em up. We're playing vertical pool.
Austin: Like if Brnine was deployed again, if Millennium Break leadership said, alright, planet number three, let's give it another go. Does Brnine maintain that role?
Ali: Um, I don't know that they have the choice not to, right?
Austin: There’s always a choice.
Janine: You've been hanging out with Thisbe way too much. [Ali laughs] That's sad.
Austin: There's always a choice.
Ali: It's not like defecting from Millennium Break. That's not what they would do, so.
Austin: Right. And they wouldn't— they wouldn't just retire.
Ali: No.
Austin: Alright. Then they are working, like you said. Who's up?
Jack: I think it's me.
Austin: Alright.
August’s Epilogue
[00:31:55]
Jack: I think August completes a record of the occupation of Palisade. It's exhaustive. It is hard to read in exactly the kind of way that the— that we avoid in this show, right? You know, we stay away from the gory detail to gesture at, you know, the stuff that we feel is important. This document is just line item after line item of the— the evil of the occupation, and the material evil as well as the effect that occupation has on a people. Of you know, losses of these livelihoods, losses of these families, of this infrastructure, technology that was— you know, there's books and books on the experiments that were being done in the Lone Marble facility with— with Motion and Ebullience. And after a long project, this is sort of— this is completed and is, you know, sent to Millennium Break, is sent deeper into the Mirage to be stored away in one of those bizarre, you know, Mirage endless archives. But the— the naming of and cataloging of the occupation has been, you know, it can never be fully complete, but you got damn near close.
Austin: Unfortunately, while you were busy compiling all that information, working through it all, Motion escapes. [exhales] Motion and some of the members of the Frontier Syndicate, who remain under her power, break out of the Twilight Mirage. And this is Motion, which means it doesn't matter how long it's going to take her to get out. The people who leave with her will live through it. Someone slipped the net.
Jack: The facility at the Lone Marble headquarters, and the work of Exanceaster March, along with the remnants of Ebullience and Motion on the planet, are destroyed in their entirety.
Austin: Which is fortunate because—?
Jack: Oh, to ensure that we don't perform the parley of, well, this technology is good in our hands.
Austin: Sure, yes. I just wanted to say that out loud. Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. You know, so many instances of throwing someone off the throne and then sitting down comfortably and saying, [Austin: Mhm.] well so long as my hand is the one on the trigger, you know, surely no ill can come of this.
Austin: Thoughts on an unfortunately?
Keith: The Lone Marble group stuff, that was the— they were building those, like—not the Motion bots—
Austin: Yeah, the like— completely enslaved Delegates. They were working with Ebullience and the— that Axiom. They were part of the City City Project,and— 
Jack: Also a shit ton of like, straight up weapons manufacturing? [Austin: Yep, yep.] I remember the mech show?
Keith: Yeah, that's what I was misremembering, yeah the mech show.
Art: That’s screwed up.
Austin: I mean big unfortunately—but I was kind of saving it, but you know, maybe doing it now is—you know, I think the pull gets really hard to resist. Unfortunately, Wakeful is out there, and the dreams of joining with Righteousness continue to intrude, and it is— it is debilitating. The feeling of— one, the feeling of absence or the feeling of distance from righteousness, from Wakeful. And then two, as things start to stabilize, more and more people who are part of Reunion go and reunite.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: And suddenly your, you know, one of your aides is gone. You know, a number of your friends have decided to join Wakeful. Some of them haven't in a way that is like, loud and angry, and not like— this isn't the way it was supposed to go. And whether you agree with that or not, the process of hearing that, when you've been having these dreams of reunion is hard. You know, you've been working through your feelings about it, and there are people who you now know that if you went through with it, they would look down on you for doing it. It's kind of a damned if you do, damned if you don't feeling.
Jack: Huh. [chuckles] Yeah. God, speaking of damned if you do, damned if you don't, do we want to gesture at like a capital J justice for the people that the Cause has captured? I mean, is this—
Austin: You got a fortunately.
Jack: I do have a fortunately, but you know, this is an August Righteousness fortunately?
Keith: Mhm.
Austin: Yeah, but I think—
Keith: You have intersecting interests with the kingdom.
Austin: Yeah. Nothing here says you can't talk about that broader thing, you know what I mean? It's just, the final one has to be that big picture kingdom thing. Again, I'm looking at examples here, [Jack: Yeah.] and, an example here is Aerie was treated like royalty after bonding with the dragon. He used his newfound power to command the aristocrats to stand down and make way for the new order— right? You can touch the kingdom with these.
Jack: Yeah. I think the trials are really lengthy and really controversial. There's a lot of column inches spilled. A lot of people, the pirates are arguing for executions. They don't know what to do about not executing Divines or not knowing how to execute Divines. Twilight Mirage is calling for— well, hand them over to us. We have systems in place for this. I think that Lucia, Exancester— yeah, Lucia and Exanceaster are tried. And I think that they are imprisoned. I think that they are imprisoned with no hope of— it's so weird using the specific carceral language of, there's no hope of parole for these people. You can't go up before a parole board. You're essentially done. And the same trials pour down through the officer classes, and then down to the, you know, foot soldiers of the occupation.
Austin: Occam Olio. No parole.
Jack: I mean, I think it’s— they're tried, right?
Austin: Yeah yeah. Right, and whatever that outcome is, it is under this, fortunately, that you've gotten.
Jack: Yes.
Austin: The trials go well, whatever that might mean. Alright, well, unfortunately, Jack, it looks like misfortune, misfortune, misfortune.
Jack: Yep. Two— two August misfortunes and then one Kingdom misfortune.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah.
Janine: I have one.
Jack: Yeah, go ahead.
Janine: August, unfortunately, tries to rejoin in a moment of weakness. [Austin: Oh!] There is an attempt and… something gets in the way. Like maybe they can't find them, or maybe there is like truly—like, you could consider an act of God, like there's a storm that like grounds their ship or something—and kind of gets in the way of what for a moment felt certain.
Austin: Is it— it is like a non— it's an act of god, it’s a random thing that prevents it, Janine?
Janine: Yeah, yeah. [Austin: Yeah, okay.] Something that like, you know, a sandstorm, a magnetic storm of, you know— something that like, truly like grounds them maybe for like a week or something where it's just like, you so— are so sure you finally want to rejoin. [Austin: Uh huh.] And sort of do all that. [Austin: Yeah.] And you instead have to sit alone for a week or whatever.
Austin: And unfortunately, I think a week turns into a month. And a month maybe turns into a year. And you just can't shake that maybe it wasn't meant to be. It would have happened if it happened. [makes heming and hawing sounds] And you just can't ever commit to it—maybe not ever, we'll see what happens next season, I don't know that we'll be here for the next one of these—But that's how it— you just can't— it took everything to get the motivation up the first time. You know? You walked up to the diving board and you were gonna jump. And then the pool got closed. And now what? You're supposed to do it again? That's really hard, you know? And yeah. Which leaves us with one more, unfortunately, and this is the kingdom one.
Keith: I have a maybe for this one? The trial goes well and you get everyone in prison that you want to get in prison, but they're still alive, they're still in there. And because of that, they're a topic of conversation; they're talked about on the news, their legacy is being brought up. The things they did or didn't do is constantly being litigated and relitigated, and it's just something that's always on people's minds, just thinking about these people. 
Austin: Right. Especially The Twilight Mirage, which has an impulse towards forgiveness, rehabilitation, etc., and importantly did not live through what August Righteousness did. There's a lot of like, outside looking in feelings about this, which doesn't mean that they're baseless, but does mean that they don't come from, simply the people of Palisade. As Palisade gets integrated into The Twilight Mirage, there is a sense of like, a working over of how this was all done.
Was this all done right? Did August Righteousness make the right decisions? Yeah, the trials happened, but were they fair trials? Well, they didn't happen on Seneschal, they happened on Palisade.
Keith: What did they have to say? Go interview them.
Austin: Yeah. Ohh! How many documentaries do we need to make about Crusade? And this is part of why, fortunately, August Righteousness has destroyed all that stuff in the Lone Marble Group, in City City, etc., right? Is like— because it would get reintegrated, it would get reinterrogated and maybe reintegrated in some way down the road.
Jack: Yeah, take one power crisis two years from now? You know, all the power goes out in the Bontive Valley for two weeks, and you know, some local magnate is going to start saying, “I hear they had a thing in Lone Marble headquarters that could power, you know—” 
Austin: Mhm, mhm. Infinite power. Yeah.
Keith: Oh, Sylvi. Oh, no.
Sylvi: What’s up? [Keith and Dre laugh] Why are you reacting like that? What’s the problem?
Austin: Is there a final shot of August here that's like a final shot? Not a fortunately misfortunate— or unfortunately, but in the same way that we asked Brnine? It's so hard not to give players a sense of— like a second of the camera back, you know? I want people to be able to.
Jack: On the one hand, it's almost habit by now in the way that we make finales, but it's also habit for a reason. I think, you know, put the camera on the players right at the end. God, it's, August Righteousness is making a sandwich. [Dre chuckles] He's making a sandwich in his little quarters. He's got like a little enamel—
Austin: Does he eat sandwiches? Is that, sorry, Delegates eat sandwiches?
Jack: Uh, yes! No, absolutely— absolutely they do! I don't know if other delegates do. Something I've really done deliberately with August throughout this finale is embody him. I'm not making statements like August has a stomach, but I'm saying things like, he feels a pit in his stomach, you know? 
Austin: Yeah yeah yeah, totally.
Jack: He's got a little enamel pan. He's got like two— like a two burner gas stove in his quarters. And he's just like making a small toasted cheese sandwich. And he's pouring a cup of coffee into a little enamel mug. And he gets into bed and lies down, and then just sort of sits up, props himself up against the pillows because he knows he's not really going to be sleeping.
And he turns and looks out of the window next to his bed that he, you know, sat and looked out of so many times during the war. And usually there would be tracer fire on the horizon, or there would be you know, the black belching smoke of some war machine turning over the Bontive Valley. And it's still, it's quiet. There are constellations visible sort of glimmering through the Twilight Mirage. He takes a sip of his coffee, you know, takes a bite out of his— out of his cheese sandwich, and sort of like settles in for a long night of not sleeping.
Austin: Cori.
Cori’s Epilogue
[00:45:10]
Sylvi: Hey man, what’s up? It's looking great.
Jack: Oh, Jesus Christ.
Sylvi: No, it’s looking great.
Jack: What's really funny here and I think adds some color for you, the viewer, is that Sylvi has drawn in these fortune and misfortune tokens with, I would say, a punk sensibility.
Sylvi: [laughs] Oh, that's what my teachers in school used to say about my handwriting too. Real punk sensibility to this, can you start typing these?
Keith: It's the bottom row here—me, you and Art have just really great circles, and—
[Austin and Dre chuckle]
Sylvi: You can tell which ones I did tonight [Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.] because they're tiny and to the point. [Dre chuckles] Much like Cori. Yeah fuck, what's my first fortunately here? We’ll just let— you know what, I don't even want to say the number of misfortunes at the end until we're rolling through them?
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: We’ll just play through them.
Austin: We’ll just play through them.
Sylvi: Yeah, just a little reward for the attentive listeners so they know what's coming.
Keith: If you makes you feel better, you're not the only one.
Sylvi: Yeah, no worries. Oh, how big do I go with the first fortunately? I only got a couple of these and I really need to make them work. 
Art: Sounds like pretty big.
Sylvi: I think that my first idea is that when they reach Perennial, Perennial has somewhere for them to go. [Austin: Mmm.] Like has an idea of where they should go to have the greatest effect down the road, you know? Which is good because it solves the problem of them drifting in space. I think probably getting their ship repaired and stuff is part of this fortune as well, by the Perennial nanobots as you described earlier. I don't know if it's like any of the bases or places that we've mentioned. It might just be something that like, for whatever reason Perennial thinks things turn on an axis here. And that's where they're off to. [Austin: Mhm.] Does that work for that, you guys think—?
Austin: Yeah. I think you go even bigger, but yeah.
Sylvi: Cool. I'm happy to go bigger. The Iconoclasts aren't chasing her either. They didn't make it through the jump. If that helps more.
Austin: You’ve shaken them. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Okay, I need a new— now I need a new unfortunately.
Jack: Oh, it was the Iconoclasts? Alright, let’s see.
Austin: It was gonna be.
Sylvi: Yeah. Blocked ya.
Jack: [chuckles] I wonder if there's an—oh my god—I wonder if there’s an unfortunately about coming face to face with Perennial. Is there—not in the sense of like never meet your heroes—but having this sort of like, Cori is someone who has had such a strong connection to their faith and to their deity all their life, but at this remove. And I keep coming back to this image of just like, coming out of the journey, this awful journey with Present, and she's just there, you know? Is there something about this new familiarity or new proximity to Perennial?
Austin: It's interesting because it's like, on one hand, there's the like, like you said, never meet your heroes, oh, you know, you come face to face with your god, and your god is smaller than you might think. But Perennial isn't smaller than you might think— [chuckles]
Jack: No, no.
Austin: Perennial is so much bigger than...
Jack: I was actually thinking it's the other way around.
Austin: Yeah, just this incredible awe.
Jack: Yeah, and sometimes sort of like immobilizing awe.
Austin: How could I ever live up to this being and what this being needs of me? Doubt creeps in.
Sylvi: Yeah, I think that's understandable.
Jack: And any time you think to yourself, no, Perennial is, you know, she's thinking of me, she has room for grace, you think of the size of that great eye in the middle of the Dyson Sphere and you think, that thing has room for me?
Sylvi: A lot of trying to figure out where I stand with giant eyes.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Mmm.
Jack: Perennial is a nervous system, but we describe her as an eye sort of like folklorically.
Sylvi: No, yeah, I love it. Hey, guess what? Devotion's an eye, but I describe a lot of nervous systems, it’s weird how that works out!
Jack: [chuckling] Oh no!
Austin: And now, you get a— that was our first unfortunately—
Jack: That was our first unfortunately, right?  Yeah, we have a fortunately.
Austin: Phew.
Jack: Before Mr. Bone’s Wild Ride begins.
Austin: Yeah, mhm.
Sylvi: Yeah, [nervous chuckles] hold on, I'm just thinking. I've got to really nail this, you know? Before I’m crucified.
Keith: The parade.
[Sylvi chuckles]
Dre: Geez.
Sylvi: Uh... I wonder if it just goes well for a while. And like maybe this is my starting point for the fortune, right? But like, they get there and it's like, things are bad—Perennial wouldn't send them to a place where there's not work to be done, right?—but like within the first like couple months, like Cori started to get some sort of like, consecrated ground going again, [Austin: Mhm.] like the Afflicted Lands on Palisade. There's like...
They've got some people, like, I don't think there's like a full on Millennium Break cell out here, where they've been sent, but there's something starting that could start to look like one. It feels like they're actually— you know, Cori's only skill is violence, and turns out she might actually know how to build something, is what it feels like for a little while here. It's— you know— there are like these moments of victory, where it feels like they're really making a dent in things.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: Like, I think— I think that like, there is some major win here that I can't— because this is just some hypothetical planet that I don't really have a firm definition of.
Austin: Yeah, yeah. But, you know, it's another planet like this. There's a local— there are people here who are under the boot of their Principality, or one of these new emerging, you know, non-Principality, but former Principality warlords or whatever, right?
Sylvi: Yeah. And they're starting to make a name for themselves now in doing this. Like, it's starting to be understood that like, there is a force fighting against, [Austin: Yeah.] like, this out here, and it is a force powered by Perennial, and it is something that Cori and Elle are heading up.
Austin: Yeah. Unfortunately, they thank you for your hard work, [Sylvi: Yep.] and see you on your way. You are an outsider. You do not get a community here. You do not get to be part of this place. You do not— you are still— it is a little weird, all this Perennial stuff. 
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: Yeah, they will take the help, but you are not— you are a little freaky. [Sylvi laughs] And so it is off to another place, and that’s, you know, it ain’t the Blue Channel. It’s not Movie Nights.
Sylvi: No, it is like two of us, basically, and then maybe one or two stragglers from whatever popped up on this planet, is like the way I figure whatever crew this is now, right?
Austin: So that is unfortunately number two of a number.
Jack: Does anybody else have any... unfortunates?
Sylvi: Come on, guys, give me your best shot. 
Austin: I am happy to take a break and let someone else tag in. 
Dre: I have an idea.
Austin: Sure.
Dre: It almost seems too mean. 
Austin: No.
Dre: [wheezes] No—! No—
Sylvi: Don't you kill my girlfriend, Dre!
Keith: Welcome to the word unfortunate.
Dre: Well, okay! So that's what it was! [laughs]
Austin: Well, you don't have to kill— you don't have to kill her.
Dre: I'm not going to kill her, yeah, but like—
Sylvi: The fuck!
Austin: You know.
Dre: I think, unfortunately, you can't— what was it that you promised Elle that got her to change her mind?
Sylvi: Oh, that was like three months ago at this point.
Austin: You were going to get out there and build something, right?
Sylvi: Yeah, it was. It was that Perennial would be able to connect people better and more powerfully than Arbitrage, that like Arbitrage is just getting caught in the cycle, and Perennial has the capability to break that.
Austin: And Dre, is it that that does not seem to be the case?
Dre: I mean, Perennial does, but if Cori doesn't have a community, I don't know if Cori does.
Jack: Sorry, if Cori doesn't have a community, you don't know if Elle does.
Dre: Oh, yeah, sorry. I mean—
Janine: I mean you know, it's— a good way to build a community is to get a bunch of people to sign contracts that are extremely binding.
Jack: Oh my god.
Dre: Ohhh!
Austin: I mean, to me, this is the thing is, the contract activates. And Elle says, 
Austin (as Elle): I can't help it. Sorry. I have to go.
Sylvi: No!!!
Keith: Do we know what the contract was for?
Austin: We don’t know. It's all these little things, right? For—
Sylvi: There is absolutely like a scene of Cori being like, “wait, tell— tell me all about this and she's gone. I need to know what the terms are,” and she’s like “I can’t.”
Austin: “I can’t. I cannot. I literally physically cannot.” And you try to break it with Perennial magic, and you can't. And you rewind to the second before she goes, a hundred times. You can't get a different outcome.
Sylvi: No!!! I am being crucified!
Austin: The contract is binding. That's misfortune number three. What's misfortune number four? 
Dre: Yeah, how could it get worse? [chuckles]
Keith: Is this— this isn't the kingdom? This is still—
Austin: No.
Art: This isn’t the kingdom—
Austin: No, it's not.
Sylvi: No, you're thinking of my— sorry, you're looking at the four in a row that end my little run here.
Keith: You got sent somewhere— where did you get sent again?
Sylvi: I didn't— we didn't have a name for it. It was just– it's a planet in the middle of nowhere as far as we’re concerned, right? It’s just—
Austin: A good place to start building is what it was. A good place to help people, and you help people, and then they said, alright, cool, bye. They didn't let you build a community or base. It didn't develop into like, the first node of a new network.
Keith: And then Elle left.
Austin: And then and then Elle left was the second misfortune, right? The first fortune was getting sent to a good place and slipping away from the Iconoclasts, escaping the Iconoclasts.
Sylvi: I miss my wife, Brandon.
[Dre chuckles]
Keith: Maybe you lose your way back? Maybe you're like stuck out there?
Austin: I have a pitch, which is— which is— 
Keith: The Iconoclasts? Un…
Austin: No, but somebody else starts chasing you. And it's the Divine Present.
Jack: With a new Elect.
Keith: Man.
Austin: Furious at you killing—yeah, and the new— and its new Elect. And you're bouncing from place to place, from place to place. Doing what you can to help, but not able to rest your feet, not able to try to build something, not because you don't have the skills anymore. You could build something if—
Sylvi: I just don't have— 
Austin: You're one person, you're not two people anymore. You don't have Elle. And you— and maybe you're trying to find Elle. There's a little hunt, right?
Sylvi: That is absolutely what she’s doing, are you kidding! 
Austin: You’re chasing Elle as Present is chasing you through space, you know? Bouncing from world to world, getting— you know, you're hearing that Elle stopped here— someone with Elle's description was here, someone, you know— there's like— you're chasing down the one armed-man style, you know, weekly—
Janine: You're doing Sliders. You’re doing Sliders—
Austin: Yeah we’re— you're Sliders-ing here.
Art: That’s what they call it.
Austin: And then like Battlestar Galactica, every— you can only be at one place for four days, and then Present's going to find you and show up, right? 
Sylvi: Okay, okay.
Austin: So, not a good life.
Sylvi: Thank you for explaining the— what each of the names of shows meant, [Austin chuckles] because I didn't— I don't know, I haven't seen either of those.
Austin: Oh, in Sliders, they go from like, alternate dimension— 
Keith: [cross] Sliders is great.
Sylvi: [cross] It’s the body jumper one, right? Or am I—?
Austin: No, that's Quantum Leap, which is similar.
Keith: It's similar to Quantum Leap. 
Art: Yeah, they are similar.
Keith: So in Sliders, Jerry O'Connell makes an evil clone of himself, [Sylvi: Okay.] and the clone steals the technology.
Sylvi: We don’t— we don't need to—
Art: And then they recast Jerry O'Connell.
Austin: As who?
Art: And a different person starts–
Austin: Do you remember who it is? Isn't it his brother? Yeah.
Art: Is it?
Austin: Didn’t they—
Keith: No, Jerry O'Connell doesn't!
Austin: But eventually Charlie O'Connell gets cast as—
Keith: Oh!
Austin: Sorry. [Ali chuckles] It is Charlie O'Connell eventually. Anyway. 
Keith: Jerry O'Connell has to chase himself through— to get back to real earth, his real home.
Austin: So, that's what's happening here. Final one for the kingdom, misfortune.
Sylvi: Is this for me or are we collaborating?
Austin: No, it's us, it's the opposition.
Ali: What's the state of the Cult of Devotion these days?
Austin: Great question.
Jack: Good question! [Ali giggles] I was also worried about that.
Austin: We've already set up— Keith, I think you set it up in August Righteousness' final misfortune that people are like always just discoursing around the fate of all of that stuff. And Devotion specifically was a Twilight Mirage Divine, originally, not a Principality Divine.
Jack: Fucking tension between the Mirage and the government on Palisade where they're like, well, you know, we want to try Devotion.
Austin: Yeah, Devotion isn't yours to try.
Jack: I mean, maybe— oh… 
Keith: Yeah, let me try Devotion. I want that. 
[Jack and Keith chuckle]
Austin: It doesn't matter how that trial goes, because fundamentally what will happen is we know Devotion will— the carceral system of the Twilight Mirage is not the carceral system of the Cause on Palisade. They have different visions of what justice looks like.
Jack: I feel like Devotion is a Twilight Mirage Divine, and therefore should be turned over to the Twilight Mirage, is possibly more compelling.
Austin: Yeah. I just mean what happens after that is going to be different than what August Righteousness would have done.
Jack: Oh, I see. I see what you mean, right. Yes, you're saying the Cause might actually turn Devotion over, but they might not necessarily be happy with what follows.
Austin: Right. That's what I'm saying. Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. I'd like to zoom that back in on Cori, though, actually, rather, because that feels more like, oh, no, this is a kingdom thing.
Austin: No, this is the kingdom thing.
Jack: Yeah, that’s true.
Sylvi: This is the kingdom thing. Cori wouldn't even know about this, I don't think.
Austin: Yeah. Maybe you hear it on the Millennium Break Strand network at some point. You know?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: The Cult of Devotion, and like—
Jack: Brnine's sympathetic fish, a message comes through. [laughs]
Austin: [laughs] Right. Devotion itself maybe still ends up in the—oh, boy, why am I blanking on it? 
Jack: Contrition's Figure?
Austin: Contrition's Figure. Contrition's Figure. But the Cult of Devotion is allowed to reorganize itself around the principles of what Devotion stood for originally. 
Jack: Almost like a pre-Principality— right. 
Austin: Not the way it was corrupted by—at least that's what they say.
[Sylvi shudders]
Jack: Sure.
Austin: Right?
Jack: Yeah. Woof, you picked— you know, she picked a new god halfway through, the person who might have been able to— 
Austin: Mmm, right. They call Cori to testify. Cori is busy.
Jack: Cut to Cori fleeing the Divine Present clawing its way through—
Sylvi: Yeah, Cori is like in a fight in some dogshit mech right now.
Austin: Exactly! [chuckles] Ohhh, the fact that Cori has to pilot shitty mechs is so funny.
Jack: After the— yeah.
Dre: Aw…
Sylvi: She's a good pilot.
Austin: She's a great pilot, but.
Jack: That’s true.
Austin: You know.
Sylvi: You know.
Austin: It's so funny. Alright. Final shot of Cori? Is that the final shot of Cori?
Sylvi: I think— that might be the— I actually, yeah. I really like the final shot of Cori being her in this kind of like— the mech I'm picturing in my head has like a centurion sword and shield for some reason.
Austin: Oooh, fun. Yeah, that’s good.
Sylvi: And it's like, shots of like the rusty hand of this thing grabbing its sword when the— one of Present’s— I don't even know if it's the Elect itself, but it's like someone who's out there hunting for her is like staring her down. And it's like, she's fucking tired. Like you can see it in her face when she's in the cockpit. [Austin: Yeah…] And like, it's just, yeah, one more time.
Austin: I like the idea that Present has started to like have— like Present is almost like a mothership in this iteration of it that has a bunch of other mechs inside of it? And so Present will arrive to a system, and then like send its mechs out like probe droids in Empire Strikes Back looking for you, you know? They're on the hunt for you. And then like one of them finds you, and you can't defeat it quickly enough. Then Present, you know, descends on you, because they've sent back the signal, you know?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: And also, I think this is a fun one because you're bouncing around the galaxy as it's changing. As it's starting to look more like what Arbitrage threatened it would, what Elle said it might look like again, lots of, hey, so who runs this system? Oh, you know, and it's like someone named, you know, the— someone who's called themselves the Steel King or whatever, you know? It's like, well, what Stel are they part of? And it's like, that's not— they used to be Stel Kesh, but like they are off that, you know? This is their little mini kingdom.
Sylvi: Yeah. Cori is fucking chain smoking to deal with all this now.
Austin: Oh yeah, it’s good.
Sylvi: [laughs] Well.
Austin: Well. Leap.
Leap’s Epilogue
[01:04:08]
Sylvi: Happy trails, little angel.
Jack: Happy trails, little angel!
Keith: Leap.
Austin: Fortunately.
Keith: Fortunately, Leap goes out with a crew, and finds a just huge amount of buried treasure. 
Jack: Woah! Sick. This is—
Dre: Nice.
Austin: On Palisade, or in the—
Keith: On Palisade.
Janine: Cool beans, man.
Austin: On Palisade! 
Dre: On Palisade!
[Jack chuckles]
Austin: Alright. Fortunately, you're rich again.
Jack: God, this is one of the rare fortunate things that I could find actively applicable to my own life! If I went out and I was like, [Keith chuckles] I found a huge amount of buried treasure, I'd be like, you know what? Sweet.
Austin: Fuckin’ A.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Jack: Unfortunately.
Austin: It's cursed treasure. [laughs] No, this is a joke, but it's funny.
Jack: Oh!
Art: Unfortunately, money doesn't buy you happiness.
Jack: Oh.
Keith: But being a pirate does.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Internecine pirate war! Pirate war begins. Partly from-
Austin: Mutiny!
Jack: Ooh! No, let's— ooh. 
Art: Ohhh.
Austin: Cause remember, Leap is the pirate king at this point. [Jack: Yeah.] The other pirates will port up— sorry.
Janine: I was saving that to play near the end so that Keith wouldn't have as many chances to counter it.
Austin: Damn! 
Keith: The pirate hero. The pirate hero.
Janine: He’s gone Hollywood, it's a classic situation.
Austin: Sure.
Janine: Leap goes Hollywood. 
Keith: Leap is a folk hero.
Janine: He is no longer, you know… 
Jack: [chuckling] Leap goes Hollywood!
Janine: The Leap of yore. [Austin: Right.] People who were fascinated by that Leap, perhaps, find his turn towards celebrity distasteful and not pirate-y.
Keith: Fortunately, Leap also finds this distasteful. This is a phase that lasts a very short amount of time. It does make him, in the end, even richer, [Ali laughs] but he quits— [Dre: Sure sure sure.] he quits being a celebrity and recedes into a pirate's life once more.
Janine: This is why you can't blow mutiny on bad turn one.
Jack: Let's make him a celebrity again! [wheezes] Let’s make him a celebrity again! [Ali chuckles]
Janine: Ohhh, that’s great! Yeah.
Sylvi: Unfortunately, they dig up their own heads—
Art: Wait wait, where are we at?
Keith: We are at misfortune number two.
Austin: Misfortune number two.
Art: Oh, so my misfortune wasn't...
Austin: What was your misfortune?
Art: My— money doesn't buy happiness, to counter—
Austin: Oh, I thought that was you just being funny. 
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: Oh, yeah. I thought that that was just— yeah, I thought that that was just—
Austin: No, we can do that for this misfortune.
Art: Yeah, that being rich truly does not— being a rich and famous pirate doesn't bring Leap lasting peace.
Keith: Fortunately, Leap finds lots of excellent things to do with the money, giving it to a lot of the same causes that Jesset City is giving money to.
Art: Wait, doesn't this have to be a kingdom one?
Keith: No, no. We're still on— I'm on fortunate— I’m on fortune number three, but it is number five— the misfortune— the final misfortune.
Jack: Fruitless treasure map. Fruitless hunt for treasure. Time spent on the wrong leads on a planet that you heard contained a molten core of gold that could be opened and removed without harming the planet. Lead after lead of people signing on years down the drain.
Austin: And then a kingdom.
Keith: A kingdom fortunately. Our first kingdom fortunately.
Austin: And again, I didn't read the expanded examples of these before, I don't think. Here are some of those expanded examples of fortunatelys—I did, actually—fortunately, at the base of every new water wheel, mushrooms began growing in the damp soil. There's food in the new hope— 
Jack: Oh, Keith, you're doing mushrooms?
Keith: Yeah, there's mushrooms now.
Austin: There's mushrooms now, I see.
Keith: No matter, you know, no matter what happens with Leap’s rising and falling, popularity with their interest or disinterest in being a pirate, the reality is that they transferred such a massive, fortunes many times over, to people and causes on Palisade and we get good causes, revolutionary causes, programs that help people that have not just funding, but surpluses.
Austin: Mm. So like when the first bad year hits, it's okay. [Keith: It’s okay, yeah.] We're ready for this. We're not teetering on the edge. We can sustain ourselves through hard times. The Leap fund, thank you. Good use for treasure.
Jack: Maybe the best use for treasure.
Austin: It's a pretty good one.
Keith: It's all Leap ever wanted to do.
Austin: Okay. Final image of Leap since we've been trying to give people those.
Keith: It is the first image of Leap again. [Sylvi chuckles] In— even after all of this, laughing in a room surrounded by gold, in a big red coat and a black hat.
Jack: [laughs] God, has there ever been more of a pirate's pirate?
[Keith chuckles]
Austin: No, never. Clementine.
Clementine’s Epilogue
[01:09:44]
Art: Fortunately, Clementine is able to leave Palisade with Crystal Palace.
Keith: God, I would love to just make Crystal Palace not work right still. I don't know what to do about that.
Art: Well, I'm just trying to set up something for the next season.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Art: So if you don't want that, go for it. But I mean, it's not my monkeys.
Austin: Unfortunately—
Art: It is my circus.
Austin: Unfortunately.
Sylvi: [laughs] That's the unfortunate thing.
Austin: Unfortunately, Clementine's— the people around Clementine leave. It is all Iconoclasts—and I mean, some of the Iconoclasts have people like forms. We know that, for instance, the former Kesh... what was his official title? Viceroy—
Jack: Oh, the Viceroy.
Austin: —Marlon, whatever, Marlon Styx—
Jack: Kenneth Marian Culver. 
Austin: No, no, I’m sorry— yeah, you're right. I'm confusing two people. Well, yes, Kenneth Marian Culver and Tenn Alpenglow, the people who'd become iconoclastic. They might still be around, but there's no— you know, who was, who was the— Clementine's aide all those years ago, Jack?
Jack: Emaline Eccles, Ernst Sweemey.
Austin: Yeah, Eccles. Yeah, those folks leave. And so, there is no one around who is not a strange, monstrous, inky being to tell Clem that she's done a good job. There's no one to be sycophantic, there's only things that you regard as creatures around you now. And they are the ones who help you operate Crystal Palace.
Jack: God.
Art: Fortunately, a lengthy letter correspondence with Gucci—
Jack: [laughing] Oh my god!
Art: —continues.
Dre: Jesus.
Art: As Clem journeys through to the out—we're going outside the Mirage next, right?
Sylvi: Gucci, girl… 
Art: As Clem journeys out of the Mirage.
Austin: So that was number three, so next up is an unfortunately.
Art: Yeah, we're here.
Jack: Unfortunately, Crystal Palace accurately predicts a future, starting tomorrow, that demonstrates to you that Gucci Garantine is only writing these letters out of a kind of angry, impersonal compulsion.
Art: Doesn't bother me at all. [Austin laughs] Fortunately, the predictive powers of Crystal Palace allow Clementine to evade her enemies.
Austin: Just generally.
Jack: Gesturing widely.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: End of sentence.
Austin: Unfortunately, you are not the Principality of Kesh. You are one person with some monsters. You can see the future, that's pretty useful. It's also a straightjacket. And the futures that you see are ones in which you never ascend to greater power. You are someone who can prophesy what comes next. And those prophecies reveal that that is what you will do until you inevitably die.
Art: Why, it sounds like someone who hasn't spent enough time looking at the prophecies. [Austin: Mmmm.] I think that… Fortunately, the— Palisade is largely better for Clem. [Austin: Yeah!] [Jack and Keith laugh] And the people who are left behind are able to, like, do a much better job of recreating the good things that Clem was providing for the Crown of Glass. And that sort of, like—model is too strong a word—but like that sort of idea continues, and the former Crown of Glass ends up being a thriving community because they've finally gotten the Clem out of everything.
Austin: It's like you've loaded up the Yharnam Bloodborne map, but it's VR chat now, and everyone just gets to kick it [Jack chuckles] in old Yharnam.
Art: And you know, people pay lip service to Clem as the first—
Austin: Ah, sure. Uh-huh.
Art: Clementine Kesh Elementary School [Austin: Oh my god.] is one of the places you can go. I guess it wouldn’t be— it would be Witch in Glass Elementary School.
Austin: That’s right. Uh huh. We’re going to Wig Elementary, yeah.
[Dre chuckles]
Art: Wig Elementary, yeah.
Austin: Final shot of Clem.
Art: I think Clem alone in Crystal Palace contemplating the future, and also some children [Austin laughs] running past the statue of the Witch in Glass [Sylvi: Fuck!] on their way to elementary school.
Sylvi: Sorry, I just had a heart attack where you were revealing that Clementine Kesh was a mother.
Austin: Ohhh!
[Jack and Keith laugh]
Sylvi: I got so scared for a second!
Austin: That would be an unfortunately, I think, for everyone in the world.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Jack: But specifically— 
Art: No, just just a cross dissolve.
Jack: Oh yeah. God, great. [Sylvi chuckles] Two things it turns out that Clementine provided for the revolution, that is to say, cheap beer, and occasionally she kills a guy? Question mark? We too can do.
Austin: Yeah. All said, about as good as it was gonna get. Okay, Thisbe. I hate this.
Thisbe’s Epilogue
[01:15:32]
Keith: Another yikes.
Jack: We start with that one fortune, right?
Sylvi: Oh no…
Austin: Yeah, we do read this— yeah.
Jack: We're reading this backwards, Janine?
Austin: We're reading this backwards.
Janine: Yeah, yep. Fortunately, Thisbe knows freedom. Thisbe has been free for a long time, but she hasn't really known or understood it. She has always sort of seen herself in a scope where she hasn't acknowledged that freedom was a thing in that equation. She didn't notice that— she didn't consider herself as having a lack of freedom, but she also didn't consider the actions she took to be self-directed. 
Thisbe knows freedom now. Thisbe is free, Thisbe recognizes her freedom. Thisbe does things because she herself does a value assessment on it and decides, do I want to do this? Do I not want to do this? Is this worth the trouble? Is it not worth the trouble?
She's still helpful, of course. There are still situations where you do things out of a social obligation. But the important thing is that Thisbe does not see her purpose as labor. She doesn't see her purpose as being in one place or working with one person indefinitely. She doesn't see herself as being a possession or a fixture of something. So, in knowing freedom, she can go places. She can pursue things that she is curious about. She can, you know, feed the growing curiosity that she has, because she knows freedom.
Austin: Unfortunately, this is kind of hard. It's— it can be hard some days to know what to— what you want to do. It can be hard suddenly to feel like you don't just have freedom, but you have responsibility. There are times when you're like, was I wrong? Did I do that— I did this thing because I was told to do it, was I free then to do it? Or what's my responsibility with my freedom now? How do I decide if thing A or thing B is more good to do?
This doesn't stay forever, but there are really hard days because you got it all at once, or damn near it. [chuckling] You didn't have a childhood to slowly grow and learn what freedom was. You didn't have parental figures or a training program to help you situate your individual freedom and responsibility against big picture processes that are larger than you. And also you have the sense of power that comes with having a Divine integrated into your body. And that makes all of these questions that much harder.
Jack: Ali, do you have a Thisbe/Brnine, unfortunately? [Austin: Damn, yeah.] Or I'm just thinking about the like Thisbe/Brnine relationship’s journey.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: Um, yeah, I mean, it's tough. I think it's mechanically unable to be rekindled, and like socially and narratively not maintained. Uh, but I don't know.
Janine: Are you friends with your manager at Hot Topic when you stop working at Hot Topic?
[Ali laughs]
Jack: I'm just thinking about the dream that Brnine had of being in the bar with Thisbe.
Ali: Oh f— [laughs] Yeah, I mean… it was a good Hot Topic while we were there. [wheezes]
Jack: [laughing] Oh my god!
Ali: I mean, I just want to say!
Sylvi: Yeah.
Jack: [cross] It’s so fucking sad.
Ali: [cross] We had some wins in that Hot Topic!
Janine: It was before all the Funko Pop shit got in there.
Ali: Yeah, uh huh. They were selling those with the special effects.
Keith: It was one of the all time best Hot Topics.
Jack: There was a lot of Sailor Moon merch.
Austin: So this is— yeah. So this is, unfortunately, you and Brnine drift apart, and maybe worse, you understand that you had it good for some time. And you don't anymore. That those days were the good old days. Unfortunately, number three.
Jack: Oh, man.
Austin: Hey, Clem really never did take care of Ebullience, did she?
Jack: Oh, shit! Clem does that all the time. [cross] Top minds are on it.
Janine: [cross] She sure didn’t, uh huh. Yup.
Austin: Bounce bounce bounce bounce bounce bounce. Bouncing around in there. Multi-ball! Multi-ball!
Jack: “Splits again, isn’t it.”
Janine: Freedom is an interesting thing when you can't settle.
Austin: When you can't settle, yeah.
Ali: Thisbe just has manic stages now?
Austin: Well, and there's— I mean, yes, and there's like an interesting line here between freedom and chaos, right? There's like, freedom to do anything, and then like, when you have that whole play field open to you suddenly, and you just want to like run around like a little kid and just like, you know, ride every ride, try everything, go exp— like, I am not saying Thisbe is a hedonist now, but there is that urge that is not— there's an urge to do, to go.
Janine: I mean, a way to— I think a way to paint it is that like Thisbe maybe visits Collier at some point, [Austin: Yeah.] but she doesn't resettle there. [Austin: Right.] Which was her dream for a long time was like, when all this is done, when I'm free of the conflict, [Austin: Yeah.] I will go back to Collier and I will quietly farm. And like, maybe she briefly tries that, but it's just like, I can't just be here farming.
Jack: Multi-ball, ping ping ping ping ping.
Austin: Ping ping ping. And it doesn't feel, this doesn't— I don't think it feels good necessarily. It's restlessness.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: It's not like curiosity.
Janine: I'm sure she’d rather stay and farm in an academic level, you know?
Austin: Yeah, just can't find it. Just can't— on paper, it's like, I have the ability to do this now. Why can't I just fucking settle down?
Janine: This used to feel good and it doesn't now.
Austin: It doesn't anymore. 
Jack: Oh my god, Thisbe. I'm looking at Thisbe like, yep, know this feeling.
Austin: Unfortunately—last one here—kingdom unfortunate. Unfortunately, the scattered shards of Divinity remain scattered. I think this has to be about the Chimeric Cadent and the Afflictions, right? [Jack: Yeah.] Looking at the list of unclosed, still open threads, I think, you know, there was a dust storm one day, and the Afflictions and the Chimeric Cadent are gone. Which is unfortunate for the world of Palisade. They didn't get to figure out a way to reintegrate with these beings. They didn't get to find a way forward with the multiplicity of selfhood. There was no re-knitting of the culture, nor— and let's pull the Delegates into this, let's pull Wakeful into this. 
There's a sort of hollow echo of the joyous ending of Twilight Mirage when we laughed and talked about how at the beginning of the season there was only one Divine Fleet, but look now. There's all these different variations on Divinity flying out into the galaxy. Here's, you know, the Restitution of All Things and the Divine Fleet under the protection of Anticipation and Tender. Here's the Signet’s and the Waking Cadent’s Divine Fleet. Here's the remnants of the original Divine Fleet, the Divine Free States. Look at all these different— here it is, you know, Wakeful disappears into the—or maybe not disappears—but spreads out into space. 
The Afflictions and the Cadent, the Chimeric Cadent— and even one morning, you know, one evening people look up and the— the Chimera’s Lantern is gone. The whole thing has left. Where is it gone? I don't know. The Afflictions are gone with it. And maybe other Affliction-like beings begin to appear in the galaxy, you know? But there is no knitting together what was shattered. There is only further spread. And some of it comes with superstition, and religion, and authority and all that stuff. And on Palisade, it is a continuation of how it had been, you know?
Final image of Thisbe.
Janine: I think the final image of Thisbe, despite all the misfortune, the image I have in my head is a little bit cute. There's a sadness to it, but I think Thisbe has, at some point, she would definitely find a way to make this happen, given everything. She has her own little ship.
And it's not a little ship, it's a big ship, but it's a ship that, you know, the cockpit is sized for her. [Austin: Mmm, mhm.] And there is a hold that holds Mow, and there's probably not a lot in the way of living space, that's not so much a concern? Most of the space is Mow space and Thisbe space, and then a pretty compact kind of— you know, this is not a thing— this is a thing that is not built to charge head first into a fight as Thisbe herself typically did. [Austin: Sure.] This is meant to just kind of squeak by and get you to where you need to go. 
But it is a thing of like, she's got this little ship, and maybe it has a paint job that's like vaguely reminiscent of Mow's milk truck paint job? [Austin: Yeah, yeah.] Like it's not a milk truck anymore, but it's like similar colors. [Austin: Mhm.] There's like a fondness for those colors. And I think it's Thisbe kind of like just puttering around out there.
Austin: Alone though? [Janine: Just— yeah.] With Mow, but no— no, yeah.
Janine: Sure, Mow. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Visit people, but you know.
Austin: Are you doing— are you doing Millennium Break stuff? Are you doing, are you like shipping stuff around? What is the day to day?
Janine: I think it's like very itinerant and not the same thing. [Austin: Yeah.] Like I think increasingly Thisbe finds it difficult to be like, I am just going to focus on Millennium Break stuff. I'm doing Millennium Break work. I think it is like, you know, she'll get a call, she'll come in for a couple of weeks, help out. [Austin: Mhm, mhm.] Then she'll go somewhere and end up just like picking up some shifts at a port or something.
Austin: [chuckling] Uh huh.
Janine: Or, you know, like it is it is kind of just a, you know, pay me in gas and spaceship parts or whatever.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Sort of coming/going.
Austin: Which I think also reflects the emerging new world, right? I think you slowly have to start making— making a list of the places it's safe for someone like you to go work, right? Your connections to Twilight— or to Millennium Break, but also you are a robot who is not a Columnar, who doesn't have like an old Principality social security number or whatever, you know?
Janine: It does have Integrity.
Austin: That’s also important.
Janine: I guess when we're saying alone, like that's—
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's true.
Janine: It is technically Thisbe, Mow, Integrity, and Ebullience [chuckles].
Austin: And Ebullience, yeah. A family can look like a lot of different things, [Janine: Uh-huh.] you know? Alright. Levitation, take us home.
Levi’s Epilogue
[01:28:07]
Dre: Mm. So let's see. Levitation left Twilight Mirage, is back with Brnine. 
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah, I think Levitation leaves the Twilight Mirage, brings several of his closest squaddies with him.
Austin: Mhm. Aggressive though they be. 
Dre: Aggressive though they be, sometimes you need some rowdy— some rowdy folks in your life. [Austin: Yeah.] And he and his squaddies do enough jobs to scrape enough money to get their own ship.
Austin: And they're out there— are they part of Millennium Break, or are they out there doing their own thing? What is their— what is the vibe here for that group? 
Dre: They are doing their— they work with Millennium Break, but they are doing their own thing.
Keith: Congratulations to Dre for being the only one that ends on a fortunately, and then gets a kingdom, fortunately.
Jack: Oh, unfortunately… I want to know, unfortunately, about how you know, coming from the Twilight Mirage to fight the good fight on Palisade, I could see someone sort of being like, well, it's hard here, you know. It's hard outside of the Mirage because we're throwing off the yoke of an oppressive empire. [Austin: Mmm, mhm.] And then you leave that planet and you're like, great, done. And you're like, oh, this is all of it?
[chuckling] This, you know, that weight of like, oh, it's just this top to bottom forever, everywhere? Is there that kind of shock of like, the— the idealism born in the Mirage and then sharpened on Palisade, suddenly has to be sharp enough to cut, you know, the might, the sheer might of the Principality?
Austin: Yeah, I think that's a good unfortunately, you know? Unfortunately, you've learned what it means to be a force of good acknowledged across the galaxy. And what it means is, yeah, get back to work. There's more to go.
Ali: Let me tell you, brother.
[Jack chuckles]
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: At least Brnine knew the shape of the Principality, you know, going into the war, right? Levi is like, [chuckles] oh, the number of belligerents is what?
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, you're from a part of the galaxy where there's nine planets. [Jack and Dre chuckle] Which is like, ooooh, uh oh, something might go wrong on a planet somewhere, what are you going to do? [laughs] And like this out here, it is just a different fucking thing my man. [Dre laughs]
Jack: It's like, I used to know someone on every planet.
Austin: Right! Right. 
Dre: I would say, fortunately, though, Levitation is young.
Austin: Mmm. Damn.
Dre: Levitation came late to a long war, and they still have— they still have that drive in him.
Keith: Least burnt out award.
Dre: Yeah. A hundred percent. 
Austin: Yeah, that's real.
Sylvi: Cori's out of the running for that a long time ago.
Austin: Oh, Cori. Yeah.
Keith: You burned out real fast, huh?
Sylvi: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Brightest stars always do. 
Austin: So true.
Sylvi: Wow. That’s what I tell myself every morning. [laughs]
Dre: Oh, bud.
Austin: And one more fortunately, and this is for the kingdom. 
Dre: Oh, yeah, gosh, I guess I do this one too.
Austin: You do.
Dre: I keep thinking the kingdom is like everybody. 
Austin: Happy to help.
Sylvi: We can help.
Austin: But you know, you should take a lead on it. 
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah. And I guess in this case, the kingdom is Palisade, right?
Austin, Jack, Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: This is the last one! 
Dre: I know! And I'm trying to remember, like, what all of our, like, things about the kingdom were said earlier. I mean, is there— is there something that was narrated because of an unfortunately that we feel like for the sake of the story, and the season, and for Palisade is like something that we want to push back against?
Austin: Great question.
Keith: I'm having trouble remembering the first one.
Dre: Yeah, same. 
Austin: Brnine’s was hero worship. Is that right?
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: Fortunately, everyone hates Brnine. [Austin: Nooo! No.] No more hero worship.
[Keith chuckles]
Austin: What were you going to say, Ali?
Ali: I was trying to think through all of the other ones, but I think part of— part of my question is, I mean, our goal for Palisade was unity or whatever? Control—
Austin: Control/unification.
Ali: So some of that— what's Palisade's identity here? [Austin: Yeah.] What is being in the community of the Twilight Mirage like? What individuality do they get in there?
Austin: Yeah. Are they part of the Qui Err Coalition? Do they get to be their own unique planet that's not part of that group? Do they want that? These are big questions.
Jack: Well, I mean, it's one of these things, right, where it's like—and I think we talked about this a bit off mic—we regularly talk about the Twilight Mirage, the fog, as synonymous with the Twilight Mirage, the state, or like the culture, or the civilization. You know, we use those words synonymously. And I wonder if Palisade is able to maybe like get a seat in Twilight Mirage governance, but is like— it's inside the Twilight Mirage, but it's not the Twilight Mirage, the fog, but not part of the Twilight Mirage, the state entity.
Austin: Not part of the Qui Err Coalition, which is the state entity.
Jack: But is that— is that a fortunately? I'm not saying that in the sense of like, is that an unfortunately, but do we want to hit a capital F fortunately here, you know?
Austin: I don’t— yeah. I think that that thing that you just said could be true either way? I think that like, if we want to hit a bigger capital F fortunately—
Jack: We can just say that—
Austin: —what you just said can also be true, yeah exactly.
Jack: And I think that's what I'm getting at, right? We should take advantage of the fortunately.
Austin: And swing big. Other things that were unfortunately is, August Righteousness’ was that the Mirage took— that there was always ongoing discourse about kind of how the justice was done on Palisade, and whether or not those people were tried fairly and their perspectives get overrepresented, etc. Cori's was that the Cult of Devotion re-emerged. And Thisbe’s, which we just had— 
Jack: Scattered Divinity.
Austin: Yeah, that Divinity did not heal on Palisade nor elsewhere. “Heal”, quote unquote, but you know what I mean. 
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Buddy. So I don't know that there's like an immediate claw one of those back.
Jack: If it's anything, it's closer to the Divinity one for me. It's— it’s that I want [Dre: Yeah.] some sort of...
Austin: I think that's tough for Levi who doesn't really have a line in on that stuff.
Jack: No, that’s— yeah that's true.
Austin: Which isn't— it doesn't have to be a one-to-one for Levi in that way, I guess. But it does have— [Keith: Yeah.] mmm, there are examples on even the good ones are things like, you know, this one fortunately, “there is no home for fascism in the kingdom Rukeri. The citizens revolt and overwhelm the spiritor police—”
Jack: We made a whole season about that.
[Dre chuckles]
Austin: “The fascist lackeys are summarily consumed by the dragon Aerie left behind. May this dragon's meal herald a golden age for Rukeri.” So like, yes, even though it's still tied to a person's efforts or what they were working on broadly.
Jack: Sorry, Drew Carey? 
Keith: Mhm.
Austin: No, Rukeri.
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: I also heard a golden age, Drew Carey.
[Keith chuckles]
Austin: A golden age for Rukeri. It is a golden age for Drew Carey though. Shout outs.
Sylvi: Shout out big dog.
Jack: What's that guy spend— $45,000 during the strike on food for striking workers? 
Austin: On food, yeah.
Jack: Dude's great.
Sylvi: Hell yeah.
Jack: Um, yeah. Okay.
Austin: I guess, Dre, what pops out to you is like— I know it's hard because Levi— maybe here's one thing to think about too. Let's bracket Levi a little bit. You also played Figure this season, [Dre: Oh…] and there's a degree to which it's like, well, what’s Dre’s— what is your narrative, where do you put your narrative focal lens here in this final beat, you know? What did maybe Figure care about? What did, you know— or what has been your preoccupation this season that you'd like to put some attention on as we come to wrap it up? 
Dre: I guess like, for me, the hope with Figure in this season was to try and find a way to like, figure out what does like— what doe true hope and like, hope for change look like even if we don't win the whole big damn war. And I think with Figure specifically, that was much more on a personal level. And boy, what a time to try and [Austin: Yeah.] [laughs] explore that belief, you know? 
Austin: Yeah. One thing that could connect Levi to that, which is in line with both of them, is the thing that was at stake last finale season.  Which was what do people think of Millennium Break? One of the things that we danced around—or not danced around, we talked around a lot—was like, oh, the Cause is not Millennium Break. The Cause is something else. The cause is a combination of Millennium Break, plus Reunion, plus these other groups from Palisade, plus eventually Twilight Mirage forces, da-da-da-da-da. Is there some sort of thing that Levi effectively kicks off—? You know, Levi is a hero, right? Levi is a big damn hero in that way. You got three fortunates. You got a promotion. You are known as a force of good across the galaxy. We've already said, hey, there's limits to what that can do for you.
But maybe there's the alternate— there’s the other half of that coin, which is like, and there are things that that does do for you. Levi gets to be the poster boy of something new. And maybe that thing is Millennium Break. Maybe that thing is whatever— a new ideology that emerges from these different groups coming together. It's something hopeful. Maybe Levi gets to name the new Millennium. [chuckles] It is Levitation Millennium. [Dre and Ali chuckle] It's not that. But it's something there.
Keith: Mil-Levi-nium
Austin: The Mil-Levi-nium, yeah. [Dre wheezes] But is there something there that unites those two desires, right? Because a similar desire between both characters is like, I think hope is important, you know? [chuckles] Whether that's at the personal level or the broader political level. Is there something there?
Keith: If there's not, it's not worth discounting trying to counter one of these other unfortunatelys. August Righteousness’ unfortunately is really bad. I feel like, that is the sort of pernicious thing that gets the places that we talk about in every one of our seasons in a lot of trouble, is people being like, well, let's maybe make sure that we've got it all figured out for these bad guys, maybe we should put them in front of a microphone and see what happens.
Dre: I guess, like, I do have an answer, but it just— I don't know. It feels like too simple? But maybe that's me overthinking it.
Austin: Talk to me about simple— no, no, I don't think— it is probably you overthinking it in the sense that, [Dre chuckles] in the sense that— let's start from your impulses. Let's start from that, and then we can always work on those ideas. And also, I've said this before, but like Palisade at its heart, was meant to be kind of a corny, hopeful season? The dice did not always play out that way. The opposition got some dubs. But also, we did some big, fuck you, successful, you know, life changing type of things here. The Blue Channel. What was Brnine—? One more time. The Blue Channel does what? Or Millennium Break can do what? 
Ali: Change lives?
Austin: Millennium Break can change lives, right? [Ali: Let’s go.] Was a thing you believed, and we tried to embody that whenever we could. So let's start with your idea. Let's not discount it, Dre. 
Dre: Well, the idea is basically that Levi takes what he learned from Millennium Break, good and bad, and is like, this can't stop, this can't end, this has to keep going. Even if it doesn't look like, or it's not called Millennium Break anymore. [Austin: Mmm.] Like this spirit, this idea that people deserve to have a force that is organized around the idea of improving and changing their lives for the better, like that needs to keep happening. 
Austin: And Levi is sort of perfectly positioned for that. To be like the leader—or if not the leader, the engine of something like that, in that he doesn't have the Millennium Break baggage.
Ali: Yeah, there's also something there in like, the Brnine finale at least moved away from what Millennium Break is, in terms of creating another structure with the Cause? But the Cause still exists and could be a force that acts on its own on Palisade. [Austin: Mhm.] And that could be a fortunately that like, the you know— the engine still runs.
Austin: Right, whatever the parts of— whatever the component parts are here, from all the different Cause factions, it works on Palisade. It’s not a— it doesn't feel like a big swing in some ways, because it's fortunately, and like “fortunately it works” is not exciting? But it is good. And I think your point, Dre, of like whatever this thing looks like carrying that mission forward seems like, one, it's a big change— maybe we're underselling something here, which is like, if Palisade and the Twilight Mirage are now committed to pushing forward a mission of hope and agency, and freedom from tyranny, and whatever else we're kind of rolling up into, you know— sort of egalitarian principles, the stuff that makes up the Cause’s goals, that's a big change for the Twilight Mirage, which has sat by, for the people outside the Twilight Mirage 5,000 years, and watched the Principality grow.
And so if what Levi represents, or if what this fortunately looks like is, no, we have to get involved and the leadership that emerged on Palisade as part of this cause is going to be part of a broader mission to continue helping the people outside the Twilight Mirage, continuing to put down the Divine Principality and such. But I think that's a pretty big change and a pretty big fortunately. 
Jack: Yeah. 
Austin: I don't know how that hits you though, Dre. 
Dre: No, that sounds good. 
Austin: Alright. Final shot of Levi. 
Dre: Oh…
Austin: If we're leaving you with this— this new group, this kind of like, you know, icon of a new sort of organization out there, or some continuation of what's come before, but maybe more palatable for new people. What's that look like? What's a day in the life of of Levitation look like? 
[01:44:50]
Dre: Wake up, start your day with a space cinnamon toast crunch, [Austin: Mmm. Mhm!] and two eggs. 
Austin: That's a very— wait, what? 
Dre: Yeah!
Austin: You do a cereal and a—
Dre: Not like in the cinnamon toast crunch.
Austin: No, but!
Janine: The eggs are there instead of the milk.
Sylvi: Yeah, I was— I was about to say that, Janine!
[Keith laughs]
Austin: Different dairy. I see, yeah okay.
Dre: You need protein, bro.
Austin: Yeah, okay.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: You know what? I don't know from— yeah, Levi is the one who's out here doing it, shit. Cinnamon Toast Crunch and two eggs. 
Dre: [laughs] All two eggs, that's what they call me. 
Austin: All two eggs.
Dre: I think— so, I think the main things that Levi took from his time with Millennium Break that he would want to, I guess, avoid? Is just that like how big Millennium Break got eventually led to it being compromised. Specifically, I'm thinking of the Clem stuff here, right? There were people within Millennium Break who were like, we are not fucking working with that person. And there were people in Millennium Break who were like, we definitely have to work with this person. [Austin: Right, right.] And so I think this is not, Levi is not interested in building a coalition? He is not interested in like building a broad alliance? If anything, I see this group as like, what if Robin Hood and the Merry Men also did like guerrilla warfare? 
Austin: Sure. Uh huh. Yeah. Well, they did kind of, right? [Dre: Yeah yeah yeah.] But then— then all the Robin the rich give to the poor stuff, is it— is it like, okay, hey, we're dropping this, these supplies off to people who we think need them? Is it we are like helping you set up like, a base of your own, or a farm or whatever, but then we're out, you know? Like I think about Millennium Break feels— [Dre: Yeah.] the thing you're pointing at is like Millennium Break, obviously in— in Palisade, and ended up working with other groups directly? But, but also we talked about them as being like, you know, for a long time, Leap was out there doing piracy in order to fund Millennium Break activities in other places. They were a big organization by— by Palisade. And this sounds more like, you like parachute in, you help out a local cause, you punch some assholes in the face, you take their stuff, you redistribute it, you get people on their feet and then you move on. 
Dre: Yeah. Definitely.
Austin: Do you still keep in contact with Millennium Break? Do you still have a relationship with them? Are you on the Strand network, you know? Are you texting? Are you— are you posting on the boards, on the forums?
Dre: [chuckles] Probably. I think like it's— it's infrequent. Like it's in between missions and stuff, at least posting on the boards, so to speak. [Austin: Yeah, yeah.] Probably— I wonder who, who from Millennium Break would want to keep in touch with Levi, and/or be available to be in touch? 
Austin: Great question. I think probably— you got really positive outcomes, right? You are a galactic—you got your thing. You are a galaxy renowned hero. So like, anybody who would want— it might be the other way, Dre. [Dre: Ahhh.] It might be who doesn't want to— who doesn't want to ask Levi for a favor, you know? Now there's another layer that was just like, who wants to like be friends with Levi?
It's easy for me to imagine like, Hunting being someone who stays in touch in a genuine way, [Dre: Yeah.] because Hunting seems genuine, that's kind of how I feel like we've always characterized him. But I don't know, any Blue Channel members or former Blue Channel members staying in touch with Levi over the next year or whatever?
Keith: I mean, hey, Levi sounds like a pirate to me, so that sounds great, I love that.
Dre: Yeah, no, that makes sense. That 100% makes sense. 
Austin: Yeah, there's no, is there— is it like a trading pirate tips type conversations? Is it like—
Keith: Yeah, maybe like, you know, if Levi's talking about having like a smaller crew instead of like this big kind of outfit, then kind of translating plays that like, like, hey, this is what we run with 25 people, here's what you can do with eight. Or like, hey, that was really cool. Like, I wonder how we could fit that into a bigger, you know, maneuver.
Austin: That's very funny to me.
Dre: I'm imagining the equivalent, you remember the scene in Fast Five where they figure out like, how hardcore the dude's vault is, and everyone's like, oh, it's a vault, how hard could it be? And then Ludacris is like, “you all have no idea how hard this could be.” [Austin laughs] I feel like, like, you know, there's been a phone call where like, Levi calls the pirates and is like, hey, man, how do I bust this open? And they're like, oh, fuck. Okay, alright, here's what you got to do. 
Austin: What I'm imagining is the Mind of the Game podcast with LeBron James and JJ Reddick, [Dre and Sylvi laugh] [chuckles] except it's Levi and Leap, and Leap shows up with the— with the clipboard is like drawing the play out about how, okay, well, first you move your blockade breakers to the east and then you know, you distract them. And, you know, we call this the Oklahoma seven—
Keith: And Levi goes like, breakers?! 
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Keith: We have one breaker.
Austin: You just have the one? Oh, right. Because Levi's a smaller unit. Right, yeah, of course, I see. [Dre: Yeah yeah yeah.] There’s— this is why it doesn't translate.
Cool. You know, maybe it's— maybe it is after a particularly, you know, intense one of these like not— not conversations but an intense like, I guess, I don't want to just paint you as a space pirate, but I don't know maybe there is something— you said Robin Hood is a great, is a great figure for this. I think about— a thing I kind of love about this this ending—
Keith: We call— we can call each other  Battle Man and the Robbing— and the Robin Hood. Batting—
Austin: Oh my god, we're not doing this.
Ali: We’re not doing this again! [wheezes]
Austin: We’re not doing this again! [howls with laughter]
Austin: Go and listen to America's Playground. One of the best things we've ever made. A thing I really like about this ending for Levi is that there is something like, you know, there's a way in which Gur and Valence couldn't do this? You can't— you know, Marx is cool, but you kind of need the icon? You kind of need the person who like, embodies a certain spirit to like eventually popularize it more than that? I mean, that's not true, Marx did a good job, shout outs to Marx. [Dre: Yeah.] [Sylvi chuckles] But I'm imagining in that more— in that more folk hero way, right? That like part of what the anti-Principality movement needed was a figure to put on posters and a figure to tell stories at about— around the dinner table, and you know, that that being Levi, and also Levi having this almost mythical status as someone who showed up from the Twilight Mirage, like there's all sorts of stuff there that makes that make sense to me, and I really love that. Is there is there anything different in the way Levi does like the, you know, front and center combat leader version of this stuff?
Dre: Yeah. They got a big sword now. 
Austin: Hell yeah. Love to have a— how big is the big sword? 
Dre: It's very big. It is like, think Dark Souls, Colossus, Greatsword, Monster Hunter.
Austin: Sure.
Sylvi: Sick.
Dre: I don't know specifically what it looks like, but I do know that it has the ability to change its own gravitational pull, and that's how Levi still like jumps around and shit. 
Austin: Ohhh.
Sylvi: That rules!
Austin: That fucking rules. 
Dre: That seems like Mirage tech to me.
Austin: Yeah, definitely. [Keith: Sure.] And like the sort of thing you could imagine them bringing out into the wider world without the Mirage itself still being there, right? [Dre: Yeah.] Like, you can't do all the weird AR is the real world stuff without the Mirage, but you can totally do wild ass super gravity tech, why not? 
Dre: Mhm.
Austin: I think maybe then it is while you're in your ship or in your base of operations, maybe doing cleaning or repairs on that— this sword, just to give us a visual shot when someone shows up unexpectedly. Hey, Keith. 
Someone Shows Up
[01:52:39]
Keith: Yes!
Austin: What does Eclectic Opposition look like as a delegate sent from Wakeful? Same fit? New fit?
Keith: I think that there's— oh, fuck. Wait, hold on. I have to look up… 
Austin: Are we looking up a new teapot?
Keith: No, no— [Dre chuckles] uh! Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. So, that's a great idea. [Sylvi laughs] So before I— because, before, I compared Eclectic’s sort of like color to a teapot that I have, a wood fire teapot that is sort of like, got this kind of creamsicle thing going on? There's like spots where the flame hits the clay and it turns a sort of like, toasted marshmallow brown, and then the rest of the clay, the ceramic like stays kind of white.
But I have other wood fired pots. You keep it in for longer and it just gets darker and darker and darker, [Austin: Oh…] until you've got this much, much, like way deeper sort of color shifted, kind of same idea, but the the lights are like a dark brown, and the darks are like black.
Austin: Interesting.
Keith: Or near black. And the wood, the wood fire, it gets so hot that it starts to like crack, like it's called— vitrification, where it like creates a glaze by just like super heating? So it gets like kind of shiny. [Austin: Oooh.] And then it gets so hot that then that layer kind of like cracks. So that's what Eclectic looks like. Now, I will share— I'll just I'll just get up in a few minutes and take a picture of that teapot.
Austin: Thank you, amazing. [Sylvi chuckles] What news does Wakeful bring to Levi?
Keith (as Eclectic): [clears throat] Levi. 
Dre (as Levi): Hey.
Keith: I take out a piece of paper— I've got it on a piece of paper.
Dre: Oh good.
Austin: And this is a reminder, Levi, you have not seen Eclectic since the middle of the last days of the Questlandia Palisade game, you know? 
Dre: Yeah.
Keith (as Eclectic): Oh, hi, by the way. 
Keith: I'm just like, in Levi's ship?
Austin: That's what you did the first time!
Dre: Yeah, no.
Austin: I thought it would be appropriate to just have the s–!
Keith: Just just checking. Yes, I do think it's appropriate.
Austin: Yeah, yeah yeah.
Keith: Yes. I'm just checking. And that’s— that's the location, is the ship. Oh, sorry, Dre. What did you say before I yelled? 
Dre: Oh, I just said hey.
Keith: Oh.
Keith (as Eclectic): You're not surprised, or you're not like, “whoa, cool.”
Dre (as Levi): It— it is cool.
Keith (as Eclectic): Alright. Cool.
Dre (as Levi): How did you get here?
Keith (as Eclectic): Snuck in. It was easy.
Dre (as Levi): Well, like, how did you get here in space? 
Keith (as Eclectic): Flew..?
Dre (as Levi): Yeah, okay.
Austin: Yeah, sure. Sure, yeah.
Keith (as Eclectic): I flew.
Keith: Okay, I've got, I have my list of things, in character. [clears throat]
Austin: You pull out a little list? You pull out like a— okay.
Keith: Yeah, I have a little list. I have a little list, it's folded— it's folded four times into a too-tiny piece of paper.
Dre (as Levi): Are you serving me?
Keith (as Eclectic): No! Well— no.
Dre (as Levi): Okay.
Keith (as Eclectic): You know that I… died? Well—
Dre (as Levi): It would appear it didn't stick, yeah.
Keith (as Eclectic): It's not that it didn't stick. This is what happened the whole time. I was like this the whole time right away, I got like, reabsorbed. 
Sylvi: Aw.
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah.
Dre (as Levi): Wait— 
[Ali wheezes]
Sylvi: [chuckles] I'm not there. 
Dre (as Levi): Yeah, what did you get unabsorbed from?
Keith (as Eclectic): I didn't get unabsorbed— it's hard to explain. Am I a projection? I don't really know.
Dre (as Levi): Okay.
Austin: We know! Is that you asking— that was you just saying that out loud in character, that wasn't you asking Austin, right?
[Dre chuckles] 
Keith: Right, yes.
Austin: Yeah, okay. Yeah, I like this. I like Eclectic not fully understanding the mechanisms of how Wakeful works.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Yeah, good.
Keith (as Eclectic): I can— I can still, I can feel it still.
Dre (as Levi): [slowly] Okay.
Keith (as Eclectic): But, uh, you know Motion.
Dre (as Levi): Yeah. 
Keith (as Eclectic): [cross] Uhhh, Motion showed up.
Dre (as Levi): [cross] I haven't thought about Motion in a while.
Keith (as Eclectic): Oh, really? Has it been that long? 
Dre: I don't know, how long— how long has this been, since like..? 
Austin: I think— I don't know, you know, it feels like to make these epilogues stick—and let's say that those epilogues have happened, right, at the time of this conversation—it feels like it's been a year, right?
Dre: Okay, that's what I was thinking, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, like not five years, but—
Keith (as Eclectic): Time's been sort of like a soup to me.
Dre (as Levi): That's fair.
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah, like a pea soup.
Dre (as Levi): I mean, it doesn't make any sense, but I think I gotta stop asking questions if I'm going to let you get to your point.
Keith (as Eclectic): Sure. So Motion showed up and I think was running a scam. I told, or thought about— I thought about all the stuff that I knew about Motion and then the rest sort of took care of itself. So. Levi. So, here's what happened.
Motion showed up to Wakeful and was running— trying to get Wakeful on, you know, her side. 
Dre (as Levi): Mhm.
Keith (as Eclectic): But because of all of our stuff with Motion, it was no deal, like right away. Then she took the big ship, Dahlia's big ship, the Ekpyrosis, and sent it towards Perennial. And we can't really do anything about that, but it seems bad. And so they sent me, because I know you, to go ask you to go help, because you're— well, you're a hotshot now.
[Austin laughs]
Dre (as Levi): Oh. [exhales] Okay, so what's the deal? I just gotta track down a Divine and kill it before it blows up Perennial?
Keith (as Eclectic): That sounds like a big ask, but yeah, that's it. Yeah, that's it.
Austin: And I think we get it— I think we get the shot that is like, they're like, oh yeah, just a Divine, and we see Motion's fleet.
Sylvi: [worried sound] 
Austin: We see the now rebuilt Black Century, right? Dark against the stars, blotting out the stars. At the center of it is the Ekpyrosis, the giant ship that Dahlia used to have that was taken over by the kind of almost symbiotic goo Divine Commitment, seemingly brought in line by Motion, off-screen over the last year.
Also pictured here are members of the group that Present has been sending after Cori, kind of suggesting this is a whole Pact offensive?
Sylvi: Oh, no.
Austin: And this is like moving closer— they are on their way towards the center of the galaxy, big and bright, but now reverse shot of it, seeing the entire fleet that approaches like, it's so dense that it actually dims the center of the galaxy somehow.
Keith: It's like a pea soup.
Austin: It's like a pea soup. It's like a dark pea soup.
Dre: It's like a French onion pea soup.
Austin: [chuckling] It's like a French onion pea soup. Don't— no one do a new recipe zine where you try to make that. Thank you.
Dre: Ehhh—
Sylvi: I think you should do it.
Dre: Ehhh, it could be alright. 
Austin: Maybe, you tell me.
Sylvi: I'm not going to have it. I just think you should do it.
Austin: Great. So yeah, Levi, light work. Probably not a 1v1 situation.
Dre: No, probably not. Sounds like Levi is going to need a team.
Austin: Yeah! [laughs] I think this is what we'll have to do. You know, there were a lot of open threads, a lot of hanging open threads remaining from the end of this Questlandia game. But I think given, you know, Motion's goals, Motion looking down her nose at Brnine and saying, well, why didn't you just become Kalmeria? You know, why didn't you own it? Here we are. Motion is making that threat.
Keith, this is a great teapot. I love new Eclectic, this is fantastic.
Keith: Thank you. Yeah, I love this pot. [Sylvi: Yeah!] It's also smaller.
Austin: Is Eclectic's head smaller too? 
Keith: Yeah, I think Eclectic's smaller. I think Eclectic's like…
Sylvi: Oh no.
Dre: Hm, he’s shrunken.
Keith: 30 percent smaller.
Austin: That's kind of fun. 
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, I like that. Alright. But, yeah, next time—which is so funny to me because, Ali, you and Jack joked on a Gathering Information that we would somehow psy-op ourselves into doing one more Armor Astir mission.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: That won't be next because next, I think, Levi has to build a team. But after that, one more time, the center of the galaxy. An attempt to keep the Perennial Wave, Kalmeria, the future of the galaxy, out of the hands of the Pact and Motion.
[music “See All Of This” by Jack de Quidt begins]
[music ends]