PALISADE 17: Upon Our Grace Pt. 4
Transcriber: Iris (@sacredwhim)
Opening Narration        1
Recap        1
Beginning        4
Combat - Thisbe        12
Risks and Perils        20
Combat - Cori        26
Swing the Hammer        32
Combat - Phrygian        41
Combat - Figure and Brnine        52
Combat - Thisbe        60
Declaring a Rival        65
Combat - Phrygian        67
Figure Assists        74
The Final Spy        83
Phrygian’s Burden        95
Closing        100
Baseline        109
Opening Narration
Austin: PALISADE is a show about empire, revolution, settler colonialism, politics, religion, war, and the many consequences thereof. For a full list of content warnings, please check the episode description.
Recap
[0:12]
Austin: The Kestral White appears again, shimmering into existence, decloaking.
[Music Intro - “Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Austin: And without saying any words, six of those Gambeson units that tortured this place before are launched again. And it seems as if the people you trusted to leave after a fair exchange were not to be trusted. Alpenglow begins a broadcast over loudspeakers, coming not only from the massive carrier ship that hovers off the north cliff, but also coming out of these Gambeson units as they do strafing runs on this place. He says:
Austin (as Alpenglow): Listen well. My master, the Viceroy Kenneth Marian Colver, has—as proxy of the Stargrave of Palisade—ordered the eradication of this treacherous cloister. But he is a generous man, and I am a merciful one. So I beg you—throw yourselves upon our grace. Those who would join the ranks of the repentant, who would reconcile yourselves to the love of the principality, come to the center of the park. The one shaped as an eye—stand in the pupil, and wait in safety as we do our noble work.
-
Ali: I got Mr. Sunset on the comms right here? Commander Sunset?
Austin: You got Mr. Sunset. Commander Sunset is on the comms, correct.
[Sylvi laughs]
Ali: Eugh.
Austin (as Griesel): Commander Sunset on the comms. You need anything, Blue Channel?
-
Janine: This is how I’ve adapted the thing that Thisbe used to do where she would just scream. Remember? [chuckles]
Austin: Oh, I do remember that.
Ali: Ohh.
Sylvi: Ooh.
Austin: Yeah, she used to just fucking scream.
Janine: Where she used to throw her head back and fucking scream?
-
Dre (as Figure): Kenneth Marion Colver, you had your chance, and now you will never leave this planet.
-
Keith (as Phrygian): If I free you, will you stop fighting?
-
Sylvi (as Cori): I’m gonna need all the Charioteers and the APC to start firing at the enemy combatants so I can get within striking range of them.
-
Austin (as Routine): Check.
-
Sylvi: I know that that’s a spy? Like, I’m aware, that’s like, on my displays or whatever?
Austin: Kay is a fuckin’ spy, a hundred percent. Yes.
Sylvi: Okay. Um…
Austin: Spies.txt and your very trusty Divine, Asepsis, has pointed them out to you.
Keith: And you have a little note somewhere that says “remember not to kill the spies”.
Sylvi: Yes. Yes, I’m thinking very hard. I put a sticky note on my display.
Austin: Mm, mhm, mhm.
[Music Intro - “Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt ends]
Beginning
[3:04]
Austin: Who’s up? What’s happening? Who’s got a thing to do? Let’s take a big picture—okay, that’s everybody moved. The water continues to spread. [Dre hums] And at this point, it’s almost this whole cliff face that this place is on is now aquatic. The buildings that go upwards are beginning to flood. Something weird is happening in the center of the Glass Archive, there’s a collection of monks who are just chanting. I think that they knew this was coming because, you know, they claim to have read it in the glass at some point. And they’re like, “yeah, and it said that we would chant during it.” And so instead of retreating to a bunker, there’s a group of folks who are just chanting the Halo theme. It’s not the Halo theme, but you know—
Sylvi: [laughs] Yeah it is.
Austin: —doing Gregorian monk chants as that happens. And, uh—
Keith: When does the guitar kick in?
Austin: Whenever you get your next, you know, good hit in, I think. [chuckles]
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: The next time y’all get a headshot, the guitar kicks in. [chuckles] So we’ll see about that. And then—and then you found out where another one of the spies is, which is good. It’s nice to have another spy back on the map. Zedd Z. Izzard appears again in a Vambrace, the other—the kind of workhorse mech of the Kesh forces, having launched it from a hidden launch bay at the side of the cliff where he ran to from his kitchen. This, of course, is the dirtbag chef, who also just is kind of like, an okay pilot. So you now have another person closing in on you. This is a big fucking fight.
Keith: Is he a better chef or a better pilot?
Austin: Better chef. Undoubtedly.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: He’s a spy, right? He’s not a soldier.
Keith: Right.
Austin: He’s a spy, first and foremost.
Keith: He’s a cook that got a mech.
Austin: He’s a cook who got a mech. He’s a spy, who trained in cooking, who got a mech.
Keith: Minored in mech.
Austin: Minored in—minored in cooking. Mech was extracurricular.
Keith: Majored in spy.
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: Majored in spy, yeah. Uh-huh.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvi: Okay. He was in mech club, but didn’t actually like, take the courses, yeah.
Austin: [cross] Mech club, yeah, yeah, yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Let’s—
Sylvi: [chuckling] The mech appreciation society at his college.
Austin: The mech—yeah, uh-huh. Thisbe—
Keith: God, I feel like we’ve got all of these things to do. [laughs]
Austin: Uh-huh. It’s a big fucking fight. We haven’t had a big, like, blowout brawl until now this season.
Keith: No.
Austin: And it’s happening. So…
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: I feel like the train brawl was pretty blowout.
Austin: It was, but it was only three people. This is the whole crew, you know?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Austin: So, who’s up?
Janine: Me?
Austin: Thisbe.
Janine: Um... What happens when I get three Risks?
Austin: You become Defenseless.
Janine: Right.
Austin: Which means that someone can make you Bite the Dust.
Janine: Right.
Austin: Which is a roll that is the equivalent of them Striking Decisively, you know? You could, for instance, try to take some time to Cool Off and get rid of one of any of your Risks here. Might be a good idea, because you’re at two Risks, right?
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. “When you take a moment in safety to Cool Off or to help someone else do the same, declare a Risk you want to get rid of and roll whatever trait seems most appropriate. On a 10+, you or they erase a Risk or untick Overheating from an Altar. On a 7 to 9, as above, but your moment of safety is interrupted.” So, you know, you’re put at risk again, just not literally with a new Risk.
Janine: I wonder if that’s even worth it. [chuckles]
Austin: Yeah, I guess we should do a high level overview really quick. You’re down to one Dan—you have Gouged and... sorry, what was the other one? It was…
Janine: Staggered.
Austin: Staggered.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Is Staggered one that can go away just fictionally?
Austin: Yeah, if you theoretically have a moment of breath, but, you know, [Keith: Right.] surrounded by three mechs that you would need to—
Keith: Fair.
Dre: Tough.
Janine: And I feel like I’m gonna have to roll Defy on that, and I have zero Defy.
Austin: And you have zero Defy. Yeah, that definitely feels like Defy to me. Eh… Yeah, that feels like Defy to me.
Janine: So to me, it’s like, well, what’s the point of it—there’s a pretty high chance that if I take the turn to recover, I’ll end up with a second Risk anyway. So like… I mean, it is not guaranteed to happen, but it feels likely.
Austin: No. But you’ve built a character—whereas like, Phrygian is built to be able to Defy and stay up. Phrygian has 3 Defy right now, I guess. [Janine: Yeah.] And so Phrygian could like, Cool Off repeatedly, but is lower at other stuff. You’ve built a character who’s kind of like, “I’m fucking in it.” Like, “let’s just keep rolling.”
Janine: Yeah, and if I Bite the Dust, that’s—so be it.
[Austin hums] [Ali chuckles]
Austin: Ali, what are you—Brnine, what’s up?
Ali: Yeah, I was gonna say I could spend one of my captain coins to remove an isk from an ally—uh, remove a Risk from an ally to give you a little more wiggle room here.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: That would be great.
Keith: “Spend one of my captain coins” is so funny. [Ali laughs] It sounds like you’re like, playing your—I mean, you kind of are playing your own little game.
Austin: Mhm. That is what it is. Yeah, that is what it is to—
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: I have leader currency and I can spend…
[Sylvi laughs]
Janine: Yeah, chief bucks.
Keith: Like—
Sylvi: [laughing] They’re little dollars with Brnine’s face on it.
Austin: Oh my god.
Keith: I love the idea that Brnine is up in the Blue Channel, like, at a table playing a solo Euro game.
Austin: That is what’s happening.
Keith: Moving little tokens around.
Austin: No, you know what it is? I think Brnine is playing XCOM, and then Gucci is playing Crusader Kings. You know?
[Ali and Keith laugh]
Austin: There’s like, tiers to it.
[Dre hums]
Austin: Yeah. How do you remove the Risk? Is this like, just giving Thisbe cover fire so that she can get her head straight? Like, what is it?
Ali: Um, yeah, I’m like, trying to... I was trying to think of a way for the like, Asepsis grounds [Austin hums] knowing to sort of be a benefit here. [Austin: Mhm.] But, uh… it could be—it feels like it could be anything. What’s the, like... What’s the peril?
Austin: The two Risks—
Ali: Thisbe doesn’t have a Peril—
Austin: Right, two Risks.
Ali: —but the peril situationally, that Thisbe is in?
Austin: Oh, well—so Thisbe has two Risks, Gouged and Staggered.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: Maybe Asepsis could—could Asepsis repair Thisbe?
Ali: Oh, I mean, like, what’s, if—what does the camera show for Thisbe right now?
Austin: Thisbe is under fire now from three directions.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: There is—there are two of these flame-based Gambesons. One is on the ground and is not doing great. In fact, is that one also—did that one also explode? Did we—did we—no, we didn’t blow it up. It’s just scorched. So that one is down to just using like, regular weapons, and is trying to like, stomp Thisbe out. And then there’s another one that still has all of its weapons and is doing all of the wild flamethrower type attacks. And now there is also this Vambrace, which as a reminder, the Vambrace is the one that’s like, four arms, and has like, mounted missile launchers, and can give itself cover fire. And then it has like—on one—in—it has four arms, in one arm—or, in one arm it has a flail, in one arm it has a shield, and then in the other two arms, it has this like, giant greatsword. And that is the, like—that is firing its missiles at Thisbe to like, give itself cover to close in on both her, Mow, and Figure. So there’s just like—it’s Thisbe behind cover somewhere, being attacked, basically, and like, not having a moment to recover.
Ali: Okay, can one of the Asepsis drones sort of like, knock in to one of those missile fires, to like—
Austin: Like, take the hit?
Ali: Yeah, or to like, make it land somewhere else or whatever. Right?
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: To like, make it not…
Austin: Totally.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: So Thisbe, I’d say that probably clears Staggered. Probably not Gouged, right?
Janine: Yeah, I think that’s the one that makes the most sense to clear.
Austin: Go for it. So that brings you back up to 2 Defense, let’s say. Because you only have 1 Danger now. Love it.
Janine: That’s great.
Ali: And I don’t—I don’t know if this is something with my sheet. Do—can I do that three per Sortie?
Austin: You could do that three per Sortie.
Ali: Damn. Okay.
Janine: That’s great.
Ali: I have more—I’m in this fight.
Austin: Sorry, you know what? It’s—you—that’s not true. You could do it two per Sortie. It’s 1 Know—it’s 1 plus your Know. So you could do it twice, because your Know is 1, right?
Ali: Oh, okay, okay, okay. Okay.
Austin: So that is—so that is, out of three—
Ali: It’s at—but it could be a maximum of three, which is why it says three.
Austin: It could be a maximum of three, exactly.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: So now you’re down to one use of it.
Ali: Okay. Perfect.
Janine: So that’s great, because it frees me up to do the thing that I wanted to do, which was cool, instead of a thing that I didn’t want to do, which was boring, and that was like, resting.
[Sylvi laughs]
Dre: Nice, nice, nice.
Combat - Thisbe
[12:00]
Janine: [chuckles] So, uh, I... We’ve like—we’ve like, shown Thisbe communicating with Mow at a distance, but I’m a little bit delicate about it, because it was a special thing [Austin: Yeah.] that I had last season mechanically. But this time I did take the thing where it’s easy to just be like, “no, they’re doing it.” [Austin: Mhm.] Because I have Animation Matrix on me.
Austin: Right, which lets you literally communicate with people. Or with Ardents, with vehicles.
Janine: Yeah. So I think this is maybe like, a more, like… involved commands.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: We did like, some remote communication with Mow, but it was like, “come here” type communication. Which—you know, like car remote control type level, I think it was. But this is more—I think, in my head, the Animation Matrix is a little more like, “okay, you’re gonna do this, and I’m gonna do this, and then this will happen.” And like it’s—it allows that.
Austin: Right, sure.
Janine: So in this case, the thing that I think is—
Austin: You’re doing tag team maneuvers at this point.
[Sylvi chuckles]
Janine: Yeah, so there’s a nice triangle here between… Zedd? Z—
Austin: Yep. Zedd.
Janine: And Thisbe and Mow. And a thing that’s really cool when I picture it in my brain, but could go very badly, is Thisbe and Mow both charging in that triangle position—
Austin: [hums] Mhm.
Janine: —and sort of coming up on either side and then just like, crunching up in the middle. Just to like, try and catch him in the middle and just do a robot sandwich.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh. I got you.
Janine: Does that sound fun?
Austin: Yeah, that does sound fun.
Keith: Delicious, crunchy robot sandwich.
[Janine chuckles]
Austin: Yeah. Give me a—that sounds like a Clash to me. Really quick note, I advanced, Brnine and Thisbe, your Gravity Clock [Janine: Oh, yeah.] since you just healed Thisbe. I feel like that’s a pretty straightforward advancement thing.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: That’s true. Did you advance that for both of us?
[Sylvi chuckles]
Austin: I did.
Janine: Okay. Cool, cool, cool.
Austin: You’re up to three. The clock is up to three at this point. 
Ali: Thank you.
Janine: Awesome.
Austin: So yeah, give me a 2d6 plus Clash, which is 2, I believe. And I think that this is a Mundane mech. This is weird because you’re basically rolling for both you and Mow in a sense, right? And the weird thing here, and I’m just gonna not—I think we just have to roll without it. You’re Arcane, which is weak to Mundane. Mow is Mundane. So actually, maybe that just evens out to being—to being disadvantage, actually. Because it’s not like Mow is strong against Mundane, you know? Oh, you know what? There’s two of you, which would give you advantage. But you are—you have the wrong one. I’m just gonna say it evens out. Just roll straight.
Janine: Okay.
[pause]
Janine: [disappointed] Ehh… [chuckles]
Austin: Oof. Oh, that’s a 6. What was the thing you were saying? You were like, it would be really cool if it works. [chuckles]
Janine: Yeah, yeah.
Keith: Is there still an advantage floating around somewhere?
Austin: No. Uh… you didn’t give it.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Someone could help. Someone could still help in this moment. We’ve decided that aid, interfere, or whatever the equivalent is here, Help or Hinder, could be done afterwards to give someone advantage, so. Brnine, you could follow up again with a Help or Hinder. [Ali gasps] Or Figure in Bismuth could. Figure is also right there, so. [Dre hums] I’m gonna leave that on the table, too.
Keith: And Figure is strong against these things.
Austin: Right, but Help or Hinder is just rolling. Remember, it’s 2d6 plus 1 if you’ve spent meaningful time together before the Sortie, 1 if you’ve Helped or Hindered previously in the Sortie, and 1 if they’re part of your Hooks. Which at this point, for Brnine, would be a 3.
Dre: Yeah.
Ali: Dang. Um, yeah, would love to do that.
Dre: Do it for the lore, Brnine.
Ali: Um…
Austin: How you helping?
Ali: [exhales] How am I helping? Um, uh…
Austin: Is this you like, picking up on something that is about to go bad and being able to be like, “oh no, look out!” [chuckles] Or like…
Janine: [chuckling] Like Thisbe running directly at missiles?
Austin: Like Thisbe running directly at missiles.
[Ali laughs]
Dre: Sure, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Things like the missiles aren’t the problem.
Keith: “Watch out for the missiles.”
[Janine chuckles]
Ali: Um, yeah, I’m like—I’m trying to look through the Blue Channel’s, like, weapons and stuff, [Austin: Mhm.] to see if there’s a way to like, help from afar in that way. Maybe I could like, snipe one of the missiles so Thisbe can like—[Austin hums] maybe I can go over to comms and like, “hang left,” and then like, I blow up a missile that was like, going towards the left path that would have hit her if—
Austin: [cross] Would have—right. Right.
Ali: Yeah, if I had not—
Austin: Well, let’s see how the roll goes.
Ali: Oh, sure.
Austin: 2d6+3.
Ali: Okay, well—okay, let me roll first, and then not describe leading [Austin laughs] [laughing] Thisbe directly into a missile so I can think of other ways to help.
Austin: Yeah, sure.
Ali: 2d6+3.
Austin: Yep.
[pause]
Ali: Is an 8. But…
Austin: Alright. Which gives This—which isn’t—remember, so, on a 7 to 9, you give Thisbe advantage, so now Thisbe gets to roll one more d6, and as long as it’s not a 1, [Janine chuckles] she’s gonna at least get a partial success on this.
Ali: Oh, okay, so that’s fine. Because I realized, though, I do have a floating Hold that I could use to be a Confidence Hold.
Austin: I see. Right, right, right.
Ali: But since this is just a…
Austin: You succeeded—you got a success on this, remember, on a 7 to 9, on a Help or Hinder, you just open yourself up to consequences, so.
Ali: Okay. Yeah, then that’s perfect.
Austin: Yeah, exactly. So 1d6, Thisbe.
Janine: I got a 1.
Austin: Oh my fucking god.
[Ali gasps]
Keith: Oh no.
Sylvi: Jesus.
Dre: Oh no.
Austin: That’s bad.
Janine: I knew it as soon as you said it. I felt it. I was like, why would he say that?
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: Uh-huh. Um—
Keith: Hey, at least we’re leveling up.
Austin: That’s true. Make sure you’re taking Spotlight every time you fail a roll, people.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Dre: Couldn’t be me.
[Sylvi laughs]
Janine: That would count as one failed roll, then. Okay, right.
Austin: That’s one failed roll, yeah. Correct, correct.
Ali: I don’t also get one, right?
Austin: I don’t think so, no.
Ali: Dang.
Austin: You do get repercussions, though. Two—
Keith: Thank god.
[Austin, Janine, and Sylvi chuckle]
Austin: I think there’s—the key here is you close in. You do manage to close in, both of you. And this thing is just a defensive powerhouse. And it really is, right? Like, part of the reason why it’s such a successful—like, the Vambrace is the backbone of the Kesh military, is because it’s so flexible. It has this really defensive capability where, because it has these four arms, including a shield and a flail, it’s just like, hard to fucking close—and the missiles, it’s hard to close in and get good—a good angle on it. And so it’s able to keep both you and Mow at bay, which is fairly impressive. Also Zedd is definitely—like, I’m, you know, I truly am just thinking about what’s his face from The Bear. Like, I really just am thinking of Jeremy Allen White.
Janine: Oh. [chuckles]
Ali: Of course.
Janine: I thought you were gonna say you were thinking about the guy from—the dirtbag chef/demolitionist from Black Butler. [chuckles]
Austin: Oh, no.
Ali: Wow. [chuckles]
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: But, you know. He’s similar. They’re the same guy.
Janine: Yeah, it’s the same guy. Same hat.
Austin: They’re the same. The same guy.
[Dre laughs]
Austin: This is what Keith means.
Sylvi: Someone please Photoshop Jeremy Allen White to be this Black Butler character.
Austin: That has to exist already, right? Have you seen this other guy? He’s that guy. It’s—they’re the same. These pictures are the same.
Keith: Oh, they’re both chefs? Is that the thing?
Austin: They’re both shithead, you know—you know. Slimeball hot chef boys, you know?
Keith: Right. That’s—that’s what I’m saying. Yes, that is what—yeah.
Sylvi: [cross] Oh, wow, yeah, he could just play this character.
Austin: Yeah, did you post—did we post—
Sylvi: I’m assuming we’re talking about Baldroy, often nicknamed Baldo?
Austin: Yeah, we’re talking about Baldroy.
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: Baldroy?
Austin: Yeah, we’re talking about Baldroy. Dirtbag chefs is the same, you know?
[Janine laughs]
Keith: [chuckles] I do want to note that I wanted to know who this guy was, and I typed in Baldroy, and the first thing—literally the first Google suggestion is “Baldroy x reader”.
[Austin and Janine laugh]
Austin: Of course, of course it is. Shoutouts.
Sylvi: Internet remains undefeated.
Risks and Perils
[19:42]
Austin: So you can’t close in on Zedd here. But more importantly, to go back to the chess metaphor, when Routine was like “check”, what was really happening was, the crew of the Kestral White was baiting you out, right? It was a feint, and was waiting for you to fire your guns so that you would be stuck in your reloading pattern while it could now fire. And it is firing—let me double check—yeah, it has these cannons that are Area and Messy, and it’s Tier 5. Everybody take the Risk “Shredded”. Shredded’s probably too strong, that’s more of a Peril.
Keith: Everybody—
Austin: Everybody.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: This thing is a giant—this thing is, in the way that—so the Blue Channel has like, a sniper rifle, right? It has a huge, like, just huge rows of cannons that can cover the entire battlefield with shots, right? So everybody is getting hit. Everyone’s getting pelted. In fact, take the Risk “Pelted”. The entire battlefield. These bullets, or these cannonballs—or they’re probably like, they’re not cannonballs, they’re shells, right? Or they’re—well, what gets fired to make a battle—
Janine: Grapeshot? Is that what grapeshot is?
Austin: It’s basically grape shot. Yeah, that’s basically what’s happening.
Keith: Now, here’s a question.
Austin: Mhm.
Keith: Do all of these guys now die?
Austin: No, because this is about putting Risks on people. It’s not Strike Decisively.
Keith: Oh, it’s not—okay.
Austin: Yeah. They’re different rolls.
Keith: There’s not even a chance. Okay. Got it.
Austin: No, that’s…
Sylvi: Sorry, what was the word we settled on?
Austin: Pelted. Pelted?
Sylvi: Pelted, okay.
Austin: You know, you’re getting just pelted by cannon fire, by this grapeshot. And it’s tearing through—
Sylvi: Guess who’s Defenseless, baby?
Dre: Me too.
Austin: It’s tearing through the glass. It’s tearing through people’s armor. What I will say, Keith, is, uh, the… no, okay, they are already def—uh, it does include Zedd. Zedd also gets pelted here, right? Zedd is within the firing zone. So even Zedd gets hit by this. Thisbe, you also get hit by it. So let me lower your thing to 1. I think this means that you’re Defenseless too, Figure. Is that right?
Dre: Yep. Uh-huh.
Austin: Alright.
Keith: But, so Red Fox gets, uh…
Austin: Gets pelted, absolutely.
Keith: Turned down by one.
Austin: Uh-huh. Yep.
Keith: Is now at 1.
Austin: Is now at 1.
Keith: This guy, the people in the corner are at zero now. Okay.
Austin: Wait, which people in the corner?
Keith: Oh, sorry. This one and this one.
Austin: [cross] No, they are not. So—oh, that one’s—this one is, yes. This one over in the top right definitely is. The ones in the top left are not. Those are the ones who are close enough to it to be under the shot, basically.
[Keith hums]
Austin: Both Tenn and Feste[1], the other Gambeson—
Keith: Ooh, I was right on the line.
Austin: Oh, you got hit. What are you talking about?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You know. Come on.
Keith: No, I’m—
Austin: The people who are safe are the ones who are at the Park of Devotion, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: So. For now, at least, right? Is anybody else—of course, at this point, I’m not gonna mark it, but Griesel, Castorin[2], and Carrow[3], the remaining Charioteers, are also hit. And so is Bea. Bea is also at zero at this point, so. So Bea is also Defenseless, and loses Hold on you, Cori, because of this rain of fire. Or it’s not fire, but you know. And the Blue Channel also gets pelted here. So, Brnine, did you take it?
Ali: Uh, no. But I will right now.
Austin: You also take it. Yeah, go for it. Boom. So—and that’s just like, it feels like it just keeps fucking coming, you know? It’s just like, it’s in the firing, like—it’s like a minute straight of this, which, you know, if we stopped talking for a minute and put in the sound of gunfire for a minute, you would feel—you would feel crazy. A word I don’t use very often, right? [Dre: Mhm.] But it would, it’s—it is—we’ve talked about this before, that like, mechs are loud, jets are loud, tanks are loud, gunfire sucks to hear. It is—it is maddening to be put under that sort of strain. And so even for you who have been in fights a lot, this, like—it won’t stop, and it just keeps coming and keeps coming. So let’s talk about where we’re at here. Figure, what are your Dangers?
Dre: Boy, what aren’t they? I have two Risk, Holding Back and—wait, did you say Pelted is a Risk or a Peril?
Austin: It’s a Risk. It’s a Risk.
Dre: Okay. Okay. So I have Holding Back and Pelted, and I have the Peril of Scorched.
Austin: Mhm. Cori?
Sylvi: Yeah, I am Alienated and Severed. Both of those are Perils. And then I’ve also been Pelted, so.
Austin: Mhm. Brnine?
Ali: I have Targeted, which is a Risk, and Pelted, which is also a Risk.
Austin: Thisbe?
Janine: I have Gouged and Pelted, both Risks.
Austin: Both Risks.
Dre: Oh, should Cori and I advance our—should I advance Gravity Clocks?
Austin: Because—
Dre: Does this count as me seeing people be put in peril?
Austin: Oh, yeah.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Oh, sorry, I didn’t know that—is that your thing? Your—Figure’s thing is—read it to me?
Dre: Yeah, “when you someone you have Gravity with sees you be put in Peril, advance it.”
Austin: Yeah, I mean that—yeah, that probably should have happened a couple of times, you know?
Dre: Okay. Okay.
Austin: It’s not literally a Peril, but you’re being put in peril, so yes. So go ahead and advance—
Dre: Right, yeah. So I’m going to advance my Cori and Phrygian clock.
Keith: While we’re just on this, I might as well get out of the way—I didn’t check, but you also didn’t say, nobody was—or, was somebody frightened when they saw my Ascendant form?
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think so.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: I think everybody was frightened. [chuckles]
Keith: [laughing] Okay.
Austin: I’ll say you should take it twice. You should take it from when you first showed up against these Gambesons, and then when you showed up to attack Kensley. So take it twice.
Keith: Okay. Okay.
Austin: For sure. And Phrygian, you have—what are your Dangers?
Keith: Oh, I also have Targeted and Pelted, two Risks.
Austin: Okay. Two things happen at once, and one of them is whatever you’re gonna do next. So—
Keith: Me?
Austin: Whoever.
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: Whoever is doing the next thing is one of the two things that’s happening at once. What is the next thing a player character is doing?
[pause]
Keith: Um…
Austin: Where does the camera focus in this moment?
Sylvi: Uh…
Austin: I’m gonna say—
Keith: I mean—
Sylvi: I—
Austin: I’m gonna make a call, actually.
Sylvi: Hm?
Keith: Okay.
Combat - Cori
[26:05]
Austin: I’m gonna actually put it on Cori in this moment, [Sylvi: Okay.] because Cori is the one—Cori is Defenseless and has someone with a weapon to her head. You know? Is a little separated now, but—
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Defenseless is a big deal, so let’s start there. And I know—I know, Figure, you’re also Defenseless, [Dre: Mhm.] but you’re a little further away from things that can hurt you badly.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: So—
Sylvi: But the person I’m fighting with is also Defenseless, correct?
Austin: Correct. You’re both Defenseless.
Sylvi: Smash. Um—[chuckles] 
Dre: [chuckling] Jesus.
Keith: This is the spy that you’re fighting?
Austin: This is the spy. Uh-huh.
Sylvi: This is the spy. Listen, orders went out the window. I’m just like, “oh, this—you cut me off from my mech’s, like, Devotion shit?”
Keith: “I’m trying to be sipped over here.”
Austin: “You cut Miette off?”
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Alright.
Sylvi: Yeah, man. What the fuck?
Ali: Can I give Cori advantage?
Austin: How? Tell me how.
Ali: [chuckling] I’m just scared for Cori and would like to support Cori in this moment.
Austin: Yeah. Mhm.
Ali: I—in the fear of describing things and then setting up bowling balls for people to get hit by, can just like, some Asepsis drones like, swirl around Cori, and then Sylvi can act, and we can figure out—
Austin: But what are they doing? 
Ali: Uh…
Austin: I gotta know what they’re doing to give advantage.
Ali: Yeah, um… [stammers]
Austin: Especially like in the water, you know what I mean? Like, Asepsis isn’t built for this.
Ali: Yeah. Alienated and Severed.
Austin: Uh-huh. Yeah. Those aren’t—
Keith: Water’s clean. Asepsis loves water.
Austin: Those aren’t things that—I don’t think Asepsis could—I mean, I guess—I guess Asepsis could be the person trying—[chuckles] the person—could try to fill in the gap for Devotion and give divine power to Cori directly instead of Devotion.
[Ali gasps]
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Dre: Yo.
Janine: Zoom in on Asepsis saying, “hey, I’ll drink your blood.”
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Keith: Wow.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: “I’ll do it.”
Keith: That’s a sin.
Dre: “I’ll do it.”
[Ali laughs]
Janine: “You need someone to do that? I’ll do it.”
Keith: You’re doing a sin right now, Cori.
Austin: I think everybody started talking. Everyone was like, I don’t give a fuck about crosstalk. It’s go-time. We’re all fucking—we’re loud about it.
Ali: [laughs] Um, yeah, I—in effort to make, um—I can’t clear Alienated, but in effort to make it maybe feel like a Risk instead, [Austin: Right.] maybe Asepsis is like, um, attaching to the Chariot Mk. 2, a little, you know, a little divine mingling, you know, sometimes if a battery works, a battery works, right? [laughs]
Sylvi: Friends at the Table is no stranger to divine mingling.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Keith: Look, sometimes you’ve got a 9 volt and it can take a 14 volt, it’s fine.
Ali: Yeah. Nobody else—yeah.
Austin: Right. And it can—and it might blow out eventually, but for at least one roll, it’ll work.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Alright, so you’re giving advantage to Cori.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Not clearing anything, you’re giving advantage. That makes sense to me. Okay.
Ali: Yeah, I don’t know that I can clear anything else.
Austin: It’s like in Titanfall 2 where you get like, the battery, and the battery like, recharges your Titan a little bit. [Ali chuckles] Except in this case, the battery is a living god, uh, of purity. Question mark, question mark, question mark.
Ali: [chuckling] Cori’s so pure, by the way, so, this works.
Dre: Mhm, mhm.
Sylvi: Yeah, absolutely.
Austin: Alright, so this is one of the things that happens at once. Let’s give—give me this roll and we’ll—
Sylvi: This is 3d6, right? Because I have advantage.
Austin: You have advantage, so it’s 3d6 plus—what’s your Clash?
Sylvi: 1.
Austin: Oh, you’re 3d6+1.
Sylvi: [strained] Oh!
Austin: Oh my fucking god.
Sylvi: Wait.
Austin: That’s a 7.
Sylvi: [chuckling] That’s a 7. [laughs]
Austin: So, on a Strike Decisively, on a 7 to 9, you succeed as above, which is—what are you doing? You’re trying to kill this person, right? The spy?
Sylvi: Yeah, no, the way I am picturing this is the like, pick of the hammer gets pulled out of my back, [Austin: Uh-huh.] and in like, one movement, I am just turning around and clubbing this person.
Austin: Okay, so you choose—
Keith: The note that said “don’t kill the spies” has fallen to the ground. [chuckles]
Austin: Right.
Sylvi: Yeah, no.
Dre: They started it.
Sylvi: Well, so that was actually being projected by Devotion. So when I got severed by this bitch—[laughs]
[Dre snickers]
Austin: Mhm.
Sylvi: I lost it, you know? It just disappeared.
Austin: So there’s a thing here, which is, you have three—you have choices. “You overreach or underestimate, take a Risk; you waste ammo or words, losing a weapon until you can rearm, or losing the weight of some bargaining chip or piece of leverage; or you strike carelessly, causing collateral damage beyond your expectations.” This—killing this person is not beyond your expectations. I’m not letting you choose that as being the thing.
Sylvi: No, but… hm.
[30:40] [Music - “Swing the Hammer” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Austin: So you could lose your only weapon remaining, or you could take a Risk. And here’s the thing, you already have a Risk, right? You’re already—you’re done.
Sylvi: Yeah, so would that become a Peril?
Austin: It would become a—I believe it would become a Burden, in fact, which we’ve not done yet at all. I’m just double checking to see if that’s true. “If you already have a Risk and”—sorry—“if you take a Risk but already have three Dangers”—yes, sorry, you’re right—“replace one with a Peril. If you would be put in Peril but already have three Dangers, replace a Risk if you have one with it. Otherwise, Bite the Dust in Desperation until the end of the Sortie.” So I’m wrong, it’s not a Burden. So yeah, you would replace your one Risk with a Peril.
Sylvi: Yeah… I’m gonna take the collateral damage.
Austin: What is—what’s that—what is it? Who—what is it that you—who—[chuckles] Oh no. Oh no.
Sylvi: I’m just gonna ping something on the map, Austin, and then you can—you can see how we can do it with that. [laughs]
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: [muffled] Oh no. Oh no.
[Sylvi and Dre laugh]
Austin: Yeah, okay.
Swing the Hammer
[31:28]
Austin: You swing so wide, and you—I want to be clear—you hit him first. You hit him on the backswing. You pull the hammer back—
Sylvi: Oh, shit.
Austin: —to like, charge up this hit, and then you slam it forward, and first you see the explosion as you kill this spy in their flooded, pelted Gambeson. And then you see your father’s body on top of her mech, which you picked up with the spiked end of the hammer.
Sylvi: Oh my fucking god.
Austin: So that’s one of the things that happens at once.
Dre: Mhm, mhm.
Sylvi: [shouting] I love this show!
Austin: And then—and then literally eclipsing you from above, as if—as if to say the real hero has arrived. Like, literally, we’re not gonna do this, right? But in the anime, we would be cutting back to—we’d be flashing back at this point to you at training school for the Devotees, for learning how to do this. There’s someone who’s like, your, you know, four years your senior, five years your senior.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Who—we’ve talked about Cori as being the poster child of the Devotees, and that’s like, sort of right, because you’re the one in the Chariot Mk. 2, right? You’re the one who’s like, the precious child of someone who’s in leadership. But there is—
Sylvi: Was in leadership.
Austin: Was in leadership. But there is someone else here. Elle Evensong. She was here with the first wave of the Devotees who arrived, right after our Orbital game, or in the middle of our Orbital game. I’d say she’s about four or five years older than you. She was heralded as—by the Dim Liturgy as the, quote, “bridge of light” who would connect the two groups. They said that she was sent with the blessing of the Arbiter, the convergence point of power diverted, a reflection of the reflection of truth. She has long, wavy lilac hair, she has light brown skin, and she has a scar across her throat from where she almost lost her head during the combat of the first wave. And where you pilot the Chariot Mk. 2, which draws power from the blood of its pilot, she pilots its sister machine, the Cataphract, which simply uses the blood of others. It’s a Tier 4 mech. It is similar in its overall design to yours.
[34:22] [Music - “Swing the Hammer” by Jack de Quidt ends]
Austin: It has like, a different helmet piece where I kind of imagine it has like, this—it’s hard to even describe, because it kind of has like, a fin that comes out the kind of top front of the helmet. And then like, it’s almost like—what do you call that, like, what the Tallgeese has or what a Roman helmet—
Sylvi: Oh.
Austin: It has sort of that, but it’s not connected all the way. It’s only connected at the front, and then it kind of loops back, almost like a speed line or like, you know, kind of like, if you think about like, mid-century retro-future—like, retro-futuristic fins that are on like, cars and rocket ships. Do you know what I mean?
Dre: Yeah. Oh, there’s a word for it and it’s driving me crazy that I can’t remember it.
Austin: [cross] Oh, that’s too big. But there is—you know what I’m talking about, right?
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Where it’s like one of these dealies, you know? Almost like a horn coming off of it. Anyway, and she—the Cataphract—the Cataphract is bathed in a crimson light. And in fact, it’s covered in almost like a—not a gel, but like a—there’s like, an aura that has a sort of physicality to it that is like, pulsing along with the Devotion pulse constantly. And unlike you, she is Aerial, and she has a kind of glowing crimson claymore. And, you know, the cavalry has arrived in effect, right? That is of course what a cataphract is, cataphracts are armored cavalry. Let me put her on the map. And again, two things happen at once. One was you being badly injured and killing your father, we now know.
Sylvi: Yep.
Dre: Normal.
Austin: Two is the arrival of Elle, who slams her sword into Tenn Alpenglow, stabbing that mech in the chest and giving it a Peril. Actually, probably just—probably just a—eh, let’s say Peril. Let’s say a Peril. Let’s give it a Peril. So, and actually, I guess I lied. It’s three things happen at once, because of stuff we’ve established. Elle Evensong, who has just stabbed your main target here, Tenn, in the chest—Asepsis goes wild. Elle is on the list of spies.
Keith: This is a very quixotic image that you’ve set up here of the knight stabbing the—
Austin: The tower?
Keith: The parapet. [laughs]
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh. Exactly.
Janine: Also, when you said Asepsis goes wild, I thought you meant like, in the audience sense, like, Asepsis loves it.
Austin: Asepsis goes wild! [laughs]
[Ali and Keith laugh]
Austin: No, Asepsis is like deeply confused, maybe.
Janine: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Right? Because like, here is someone who’s on the spy list, but who also just did—who also just stabbed your major target in the chest. So, you know? A lot happening right now. And also, again, Cori, this is someone who you, like—I don’t know if you looked up to her, maybe she was a more of a rival to you. I don’t know what your relationship was to her, but she was like—[Sylvi: Yeah.] she was—she was the poster child for that first wave. When you were like, still back in the Twilight Mirage, it was pictures of her that were being sent home, you know?
Sylvi: Okay.
Austin: And then—and then in the last year or so, she seemed to have gone missing after—she was wounded really bad, and you knew she was being trained on this new mech.
Keith: The goo mech.
Austin: Right, uh-huh, the goo mech. Which you haven’t even seen what it can do yet, but, you know.
Keith: It can stab a castle.
Sylvi: You haven’t even seen what it can goo yet.
Austin: It can stab a castle, that’s true. And I think she just says,
Austin (as Elle): Cavalry has arrived.
Keith: “I’ll show you what I can goo.”
[Sylvi laughs]
Dre: Hell yeah, dude. Hell yeah, hell yeah.
Sylvi: Cori is not responding to comms right now.
Austin: [laughs] No? No?
Sylvi: No.
Austin: Oh, I guess we should probably take Griesel off the map, huh? Let’s go ahead and—let’s just—
Sylvi: [chuckles meekly] Yeah, I guess.
Austin: You know what, I guess I’ll—you know what I’m gonna do is actually, I’m gonna leave—I’m gonna leave him on the map, and I’m just gonna draw a big red X over him. That seems more honest, right?
Dre: Sure.
Sylvi: Jesus.
Dre: That’s appropriate.
Austin: Mhm.
Sylvi: Thanks.
Keith: Papa Sunset sunset.
Austin: Mhm.
Sylvi: Uh, worth mentioning earlier that I did call the APC an “amazing papa carrier” in the chat. [chuckles]
[Austin and Keith laugh]
Austin: Yeah, well. [groans] RIP to Cori. I—you know what, Cori, I’m gonna need—I might need you to Bite the Dust.
Sylvi: Bite the Dust?
[Ali gasps]
Austin: In this moment.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: I think that’s fair, right?
Sylvi: Okay. No, I don’t think it’s unfair.
[Dre laughs]
Sylvi: But can I just look at the rules for that again really quick?
Austin: Yeah, do you want to—
Keith: Yeah, when you kill your dad, you have to Bite the Dust.
Austin: When you kill your dad, most of the time, it’s fine, but I think given Cori’s deep love for her father—[chuckles]
Ali: Her—her dad is “dead” dead?
Austin: Dog, yeah. What? Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: This is why none of my characters have had dads.
Ali: Dang.
Sylvi: Yeah, I wasn’t expecting “dead” dead either, Ali.
Austin: No, dead.
Sylvi: I was expecting “I blew up the APC and my dad’s in the hospital forever”, but yeah.
Austin: [cross] Uh-uh. “You strike decisively—you strike carelessly, causing collateral damage beyond your expectations.”
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: And it was literally beyond your expectations.
Austin: [cross] Do you see how you were both like—do you hear how you both said—you both said, “I didn’t expect that he’d be dead”? Beyond expectations.
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah. Beyond our expectations. You nailed it, man.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Ohh.
Ali: Damn.
Austin: [laughs] It’s like that.
Sylvi: You got my ass.
Austin: Bite the Dust says, “when you’re caught defenseless or risk harm so severe you might Bite the Dusk”—the Dust, rather—[Sylvi: Yeah.] “roll plus Defy.” What’s your Defy?
Sylvi: 2.
Austin: Oh, that’s not too bad. That’s plus 2.
Sylvi: It’s my best stat. Yeah.
[pause]
Austin: Hey, look at that. That’s a 12.
Sylvi: And that’s a 12.
Austin: “On a 10+, they miss, hesitate, or you’re saved by sheer luck. You rally and clear a Risk if you have one.” Oh, you don’t have any Risks, unfortunately. You only have Perils, right? Oh no, wait, you do. You do have a Risk.
Sylvi: Wait, isn’t Pelted a risk?
Austin: Yeah, Pelted, right?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: Nice.
Austin: Is that the one that—
Sylvi: So, yeah, I’m no longer Defenseless.
Austin: [cross] Alright, so you’re no longer Defenseless. Look at that. And I can tell you why you’re—
Sylvi: Thanks, dad.
Austin: Thanks, dad. Fuck. The thing that happens to protect you from Pelted is that as Elle has stabbed Tenn’s plackart in the chest, the goo, the like, aura—which again, it’s not physically a goo, but it’s kind of goo-ish. It’s goo-esque. It’s an aura that you could touch and like, float in, but it’s not slimy like a goo.
Janine: I feel like you’ve just been describing like, an ethereal version of jelly sandals.
Austin: What are jelly sandals?
Dre: Oh, I remember jelly sandals.
Janine: Jelly sandals.
Keith: They’re—
Austin: I don’t know.
Keith: Are they like the grip on like, grippy pens, but a sandal?
Janine: Kind of, yeah.
Austin: [cross] Yeah, I guess this is right. Yeah.
Dre: [cross] It’s not not that.
Janine: [cross] It’s like, clear, sometimes there’s sparkles in it.
Austin: Well, anyway, it removes itself from the Cataphract, and like, becomes a second mech made of it. And it stands next to you, and lifts you up out of the water and on top of the main hall.
Sylvi: Oh, if it’s trying to lift me up out of here, I am fighting against that.
Austin: Oh, really? Interesting.
Sylvi: Cori doesn’t want to leave the body yet. No.
Austin: Okay. Then, then I—[chuckles]
Sylvi: I’ll be Pelted still if I gotta, but she’s like…
Austin: Well, if you’re resisting, I think she would not forcibly remove you.
Sylvi: Yeah, like—
Austin: But she stays with you and basically acts as a shoulder to like, prevent further damage from you so you can recover from being Pelted, you know?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Effectively is taking blows for you so that you can’t—you’re no longer under fire in that way. The grapeshot is still coming in, but is like, being absorbed by this gelatinous, this aura mech, this kind of second mech form that’s protecting you. So yeah, she can kind of be in two places at once [Sylvi: Yeah.] using a system called Sanguine Self.
Sylvi: Great. Shit.
Austin: This is—I mean, you know what it is. This is the Devotion blood energy.
Sylvi: Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I’m also—I think what Cori’s doing is her mech is kneeling down and using the shield to protect the body at this point.
Austin: Sure. Sure.
Sylvi: Listen, I made this—when I made this character, I tapped her on the head and said, “you won’t believe how much trauma this bad boy can hold.”
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: Fuckin’—we’re doing [inaudible] right now.
Sylvi: [cross] We’re doin’ it.
Austin: Mhm.
Sylvi: Aw, man.
[Janine chuckles]
Combat - Phrygian
[42:43]
Austin: Phrygian.
Keith: Hi.
Austin: How are you doing up on that roof?
Keith: I’m one out of three good.
Austin: So is Kensley Marlowe Colver in the Gorget.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You gonna close distance, you gonna try to end this fight? What are you trying to do at this point?
Keith: I want to end the fight. I want to get to... My—I want to get to this, but this is all like, I feel like I have to do this in order to get to the spies.
Austin: Right, mhm. Mhm.
Keith: And I want to do that. And so I feel like my path to the spies is through Colver. 
Austin: Right. The—Colver’s the sister, the fox-hunting—
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Yep, okay. So are you Strike De—are you—sorry, are you Clashing again? Exchange Blows? Are you going to spend one of your special Hold to do that “take a Risk to Strike Decisively”? But that would put you at Defenseless too, which is dangerous, huh? 
Keith: That is true. It would do that. [Austin hums] So I don’t want to—I don’t want to. Um… yeah. Well, ‘cause part of me is like, okay, I could save a whole turn by taking a Risk now and like, winning that roll.
Austin: And doing the Strike Decisively, yeah.
Keith: Or it could take twice as long to end up in the same spot, because someone attacks me.
Austin: I mean, it could go—the thing is, it could go super bad if you take that—if you said—the thing that we’re talking about for people listening, Phrygian has this thing called Beast Within, which lets you spend this Hold that you have, and one of the things—you may recall this from the first episode, or the second episode—that you can take a Risk to Strike Decisively against someone who’s not Defenseless. The thing is, if you take that Risk, you become Defenseless, which makes rolling Strike Decisively kind of dangerous, [Keith: Yeah.] because you could fail that roll and you would be Defenseless already. So it’s a big risk.
Keith: Yeah. Okay, alright. I have 2 Hold left.
Austin: You do. That was the—
Keith: Because I reversed switching Defy and Talk back because I—
Austin: [cross] Oh, right. You ended up not doing that that time. Yes, correct.
Keith: Right. Because—yeah. ‘cause it wouldn’t make any sense anyway, because Defy is not the thing that I roll for combat.
Austin: Right, yes. I remember this.
Keith: But what I could do is I could swap Defy and Clash.
Austin: Right, yes.
Keith: And this—I think this is the safe way to do this.
Austin: Yes.
Keith: So I now have—
Austin: One Hold left.
Keith: 1 Defy, 3 Clash.
Austin: And then you’re gonna take the Risk and do Strike Decisively?
Keith: Um…
Austin: Or are you just gonna—you gonna just Exchange Blows to do it?
Keith: No, no, no, I’m just gonna Exchange Blows.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: And also, I was wrong. I just want to get the what’s actually true on here, [Austin: Please.] because it’s zero Defy, 3 Talk. So it’s actually, I’m switching Clash with Talk.
Austin: I see.
Keith: So—[chuckles] so I will have zero Defy, 3 Clash, and 1 Talk.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: Yeah, yes, that’s—that is the truth. [chuckles]
Austin: Okay. Can you do it so I can see it? Because right now that’s not what it says on the—
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I can do it. Yeah.
Austin: Thank you.
Keith: [idle melodic vocalization] Okay.
Austin: Is the Superman theme playing?
[Sylvi chuckles]
Keith: [chuckling] It was, yeah.
Austin: [laughs] Okay.
Keith: I don’t know why. [laughs]
Sylvi: [laughing] Phrygian is humming that to himself[4] in his—as his mech form.
Austin: Phrygian loves John Williams.
Keith: Is that John Williams? That makes sense. It’s very catchy.
Austin: Yeah. Uh-huh. It is.
Keith: Um… I don’t even like Superman. Okay, um—
[Austin laughs]
Sylvi: But Phrygian clearly does.
Austin: But Phrygian would, right? Wouldn’t Phrygian kind of love—
Keith: Well, we talked during the downtime about like, Phrygian being extra susceptible to [Austin: Right.] like, Principa-tilian, like, narrative structure, [Austin: Yeah.] because it’s just like, totally unfamiliar with these sets of tropes. And it’s like—they’re just like, very powerful in a way—
Austin: Right, Superman’s the good guy who helps people. RIght?
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Yeah, yeah. Like imagine if you—imagine if you like, showed up, someone taught you what a movie was, and then showed you, like, of the Avengers.
Austin: Right. You’d be like, “oh, yeah, cool. I love the good guys.” [chuckles]
Keith: Yeah. “Oh, good guys are so good.”
Austin: “They’re helping everybody!”
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: God, it’s just like, being raised in a situation, or like, being from a place that’s so postmodern to the degree that it’s not postmodernity against modernity. It’s just—you’re a posthuman, you can be whatever you want, you have utter freedom. And then you encounter something that’s like, “the world’s actually really simple. There are good guys and bad guys. [chuckles] And the good guys”—
Janine: This is why zoomers like Friends. We came full circle and answered our questions. [laughs]
Austin: This is why zoomers like Friends! Yes! It’s all so simple. Alright. Give me your your Exchange Blows. 2d6+3.
Keith: Yeah. Um, here we go…. Sorry, I’m on the wrong page. Um… 10.
Austin: Oh, that’s a fucking 10. This is what we’re talking about here.
Keith: Just barely got it. Yeah.
Austin: Do you give a Risk or do you give a Peril and take a Risk?
Keith: I’m not taking any Risks, I’m—so I’m giving a Risk.
Austin: What is the—what is the Risk you’re giving? Or I guess, I decide that. What are you doing? To give this added Risk.
Keith: So I’m—
Austin: We should have talked about that before you rolled, but that’s okay.
Keith: Yeah, it’s okay. I’m—maybe I should try something new.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Keith: Something that I haven’t done—I would like to be—I don’t have a melee weapon.
Austin: Sure. You got hands—
Keith: Actually, technically—actually, I do. I have Edges and Corners. I forgot that I have this.
Austin: Yeah. Totally. You do. Edges and Corners is a great name for a melee weapon.
Keith: Yes. I genuinely couldn’t tell you if this is mine or if it’s from the book. I have no idea.
Austin: Right. Yeah. Which I think speaks to how cool the Miscreated is, shoutouts to this playbook again.
Keith: Right. I have—I’m very ranged focused because of how melee-focused our—
Austin: Right, the party is. Right.
Keith: —the party is. So I just haven’t used it. And I guess I haven’t been in a lot of combat. Anyway, I’m going to crash into, um… what is the name? Colver?
Austin: Yeah, this is another Colver.
Keith: Oh, another Colver.
Austin: This is Kensley Marlowe Colver. Can y’all not see the the name tags on these things? Is this only for me?
Keith: No.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: Oh, uh, let’s see, if I click on it… no. Yeah, that’s just for you.
Austin: That’s fucked up. Okay.
Keith: Right, so this is a—you know, the body is a weapon. [Austin: Mhm.] And, uh—
Austin: [chuckles] We’re always saying that on this show.
Dre: Jesus.
Keith: Yeah. So this is a sort of like, you know, I’m going to use my tendrils and, you know, mechanical bits to throw myself like a—shoot myself like a spear into [Austin: Right.] Colver.
Austin: Alright. Give me a—oh, wait, did you already—did you do this roll? You just rolled. You got a 10, that’s right.
Keith: I got a 10, that’s—yeah, already a success.
Austin: Alright. I was trying to figure out what the Risk was. Which I think is, you just—you overwhelm, right? You overwhelm her here. She is a sniper unit. You have closed distance. She is Defenseless.
Keith: Good at any range. 
Austin: That’s how you built the character, for sure. Alright. So yeah, Defenseless. Do you want to just try to Strike Decisively here? And wrap this up?
Keith: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I would love to wrap this up.
Austin: Alright. Let’s Strike Decisively. Plus Clash. Or Talk, but I don’t think you’re gonna talk her out of this.
Keith: No, I don’t need to do that. I don’t want—I don’t need to talk to the person whose job is to kill the prisoners if they try to escape their torture mechs.
Austin: Uh-huh. Or kill you, but yes, uh-huh.
Keith: Right.
Austin: Agreed. Give me your Strike Decisively, 2d6 plus Clash, yet again. Oh my god.
Keith: Ooh! Oooh!
Austin: Again, that’s a 15, 6—that’s boxcars. 6, 6, plus 3.
Janine: There’s some real extremes in either direction of rolls in this session.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: There really are.
Janine: Lots of real high, real low.
Austin: Uh—
Keith: Do you get anything for boxcars in this game?
Austin: Not just ‘cause, no. I don’t believe so. Sorry.
Keith: Okay. Yeah, it’s fine.
Sylvi: We’ll give Phrygian a sticker.
Dre: Mhm.
Austin: [chuckles] Yeah, Phrygian will get a little sticker.
Sylvi: Of a little—it’s like a train car.
Austin: Mhm. Exactly.
Sylvi: Or boxcar.
Keith: They say—they say thanks and they just put it like, on their shoulder.
Austin: [laughs] “On a 10+, you strike true. Director characters are killed, forced to retreat, or otherwise removed as a threat per the fiction.” What are you doing here, Phrygian?
Keith: Um… I think—
Austin: How are you removing Kensley Marlowe Colver, the sister of the of the Viceroy, from this combat?
Keith: Okay, so I’m sort of picturing—‘cause I have Aerial, so I’m like, movable in the air. [Austin: Mhm.] I’ve got like—something—something about Phrygian is keeping them in the air. [Austin: Mhm.] So I would like to think of this in terms of like, a beam struggle from Dragon Ball Z. But instead of a beam, it is the pointed edge of my body spear, and the armor of this hunting mech. And—
Austin: Uh-huh. Which at this point, by the way, has been revealed, after you zeroed in on it like this, and, you know—especially maybe after Pelted, Pelted probably revealed it to you outright.
Keith: Yeah. Ripped through the cape.
Austin: Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
Keith: So I think that it’s sort of just like, you know, the third Risk was applied, and the Strike Decisively was like, I’ve just gotta gun it into this thing to crack—[Austin: Yeah.] to crack it open like a crab.
Austin: Alright, so you’re killing her.
Keith: Yes.
Austin: Alright. Kensley Marlowe Colver off the fuckin’ board. Boom. And you have the high ground here, and kind of take a look out around this. I would love to just—Phrygian, like, we haven’t seen you in this style of fight. Like, you were in a fight down in the Diadem, and that was not great, you know? But you kind of owned it, and you were really far away from it, right? You were sniping at enemies in the distance. You just pierced the armor of a combatant, someone who, like you said, one of her jobs was to force people into fighting for the Principality. Evil. Evil person. [Keith: Mhm.] But there is something—I’m curious what your head state is, your mind state is, in the middle of this—again, like, from this position, you can look around and it’s like, the settlement in the northeast is on fire, half the place is fucking flooded, the—there’s—you can look down and see Cori grieving at what seems to have been the death of her father, though maybe you don’t quite understand what happened there, necessarily. [Keith: Mhm.] There are two versions of this one mech that showed up. That is, by the way, a spy, but also seemingly on your side. There’s just combat everywhere. What is going on in Phrygian’s mind in this moment?
Keith: Um, I think there’s a couple things. [Austin: Mhm.] I think like, the top level is that Phrygian’s been doing this for a long time, [Austin: Mhm.] like—I, you know, what, like, six years into being in Millennium Break, [Austin: Right.] I don’t think is going to, you know, be shattered by killing someone up close.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Like, this is—this is—but then underneath that is the layer of like, this is part of the job. But it’s also like, I don’t want—I don’t really want it to be my job. This isn’t, [Austin: Right.] like, what I’m supposed to be doing. [Austin: Yeah.] Is like, fighting in a war. So—
Austin: Yeah. Which is that one Hook you have, right? That’s like, “I’m a scientist, but instead I’m fighting a war,” right, “which is a worse job.”
Keith: Right, yes. Yeah. [chuckles] Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: So, you know, I’m in it for Millennium Break. You know, I’m—I’ve been doing this for a long time. I’m not like—I’m not—I’m not gonna—I’m not weeping for this life that I took. [Austin: Right.] But there is like, sort of this, like, real dissatisfaction. [Austin: Mhm.] What’s worse—what’s one notch worse than dissatisfaction? It’s like a malaise.
Austin: Sure. Sure.
Janine: Discontent?
Keith: Yeah. It’s, um—yeah.
Austin: Yeah. Um, alright. Speaking of discontent, I think with the death of his sister, Kenneth Marian Colver fires a flare into the sky from the Kestral White. It explodes and it looks like a single feather, like a—it’s like a firework that’s gone off. And when—and it’s in the shape of a feather, and it is a—let’s call it a blue feather, which is the signal for retreat.
At this point, the remaining people who are still up and about are going to start trying to flee, beginning with the Gambesons who are still up in, you know, up and about, basically, who, I guess, are still technically able to fly, which I guess is really only the one up here. These other two had been pelted and grounded and scorched and all that other shit, so they’re still on the ground. [Keith: Mhm.] Figure, we haven’t come to you in a bit. So I’m curious what you’re gonna do in this situation. Zedd is going to try to bust through Mow and Thisbe and get over that direction, and I think Beliah is going to try to run around Elle. I’m just gonna take Beliah off the map. One of these other Gambeson units cannot get around Elle Evensong and just gets got. You know, is able to—is able to take a big wide swing with that claymore and knock that Gambeson out before it can retreat. So that one’s off the table.
But you know, basically, they’re trying to flee away. Phrygian, the one you were trying to convince to rejoin you is still here, and still literally floating around in the flooded—the floodwaters. So those are the kind of stakes at this point. It’s spies are still trying to get the fuck out of here, or, you know, button down and hide among the people. Or—and combatants are trying to flee.
Combat - Figure and Brnine
[56:48]
Austin: Figure, we haven’t seen you in a bit. What’s your situation?
Dre: [exhaling] Boy. Um…
Austin: And you can tell these folks are gonna try to leave, right? At this point, the ones that are across from you.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Now, you know, I don’t know what your feeling is on that, but.
Dre: I mean, I don’t like it, but I just tried to get someone out, and—
Austin: Right. It didn’t work out.
Dre: —that went bad.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: What tier is their ship? It’s 5, right?
Austin: Their tier is—yeah, their ship is Tier 5.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Right. I mean, that’s the thing. Maybe this is a larger conversation. You could just try to blow up this ship, right?
Dre: That’s—that’s what I would like to do. I don’t know if it’s possible. And I think there’s a conversation to be had of like, does that matter to the character? But I’m—I’m even just thinking like, mechanically, I don’t know how I would go about trying to do that.
Austin: Do you have—what—do you have any Bane stuff or Ruin stuff?
Dre: I don’t. I do have…
Keith: I’ve got a Bane.
Dre: I have Vorpal and Dangerous, which I feel like do things, and I can’t remember what those tags are.
Austin: Vorpal does not do what you need, I don’t think, unfortunately.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Vorpal is—you could upgrade a Risk to a Peril, but you’d still have to land a Risk on something.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: The—if you had either Ruin or Bane, you could at least roll to hit it, [Dre: Yeah.] but without one of those, you can’t even roll to do it.
Dre: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Unfortunately. Your shit just bounces, you know?
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: I could roll, and roll at disadvantage.
Austin: Right, ‘cause you’re at—you would be one tier under it with your equipment, right?
Keith: But the Blue Channel.
[Ali hums]
Austin: The Blue Channel could definitely do it. [Dre: Yeah.] Blue Channel could try to load back up and fire, right?
Ali: Uh, yeah.
Dre: Yeah, I mean, maybe that’s what I do, is that I radio Brnine and I say,
Dre (as Figure): Are you really gonna let them get away after what they did?
Austin: Damn, puttin’ it on you.
Ali: Damn. Damn, the crew has put their faith in me, huh?
Austin: Uh-huh.
Ali: This is also really good, because I have one more Hold that I was actually saving for Figure, because everyone else got one.
Dre: Aw, thanks.
Ali: So, um—[chuckles] I think Brnine is very solemn at the—this, this call to action, so to speak. And this is a win-win for me. [Austin scoffs] This is a “cake and eat it too”. Because I was thinking about how in my next action, I was gonna do the, um, “how am I gonna make this situation look good for me”?
Austin: Uh-huh.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: And I don’t know if sniping down the ship is one hundred percent that, but listen. Media spins.
Dre: Hey, it is to Figure.
Keith: I mean, we have an opportunity for like, a victory on like, kind of five fronts. [Ali: Mhm.] You know, the—okay, we got some spies—some of the spies.
Austin: You have not gotten any of the spies.
Keith: No, I mean, this is theoretically—and we do have one spy.
Dre: [cross] But we could. You know.
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: Right. You have one spy. You have not gotten any of these current new spies.
Keith: No, no, no, but I’m saying that’s—you know, I said opportunity.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got you.
Keith: So we could get some of these spies, we could fend off the invasion, we could destroy the ship. And also, we could rescue some of these like, captive, you know, Kesh soldiers, as—like, that is like, a lot of ways that we did a good job.
Austin: Mhm.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: So if everything works out, that could be a very powerful thing.
Ali: Perfect. Yeah, I would love to snipe the ship and say something cool. I… don’t… know… what the cool thing to say over the speakers is. [laughing] But—and isn’t that the Brnine story? Unfortunately.
Austin: That is the Brnine story. It is.
Dre: Mhm.
Ali: You know. “Millennium Break will yadda yadda”, but I can’t say “yadda yadda” into an open PA system.
[Keith laughs]
Austin: God. Brnine kind of does have Elaine energy sometimes.
Ali: You know, it’s ‘cause I do. [Austin laughs] And it’s just—it just bleeds through me.
[Keith laughs]
Ali: Um… can I just roll—
Keith: You’re always pushing us.
Ali: Oh, yeah. Yep. Can I just roll, and then I can, um…
Austin: Roll to attack, roll to do a little Exchange Blows with this ship, and—yeah.
Ali: Yeah. And then we can set up what the scene looks like after—after I know what…
Austin: Yes, let’s—give me the roll. Give me 2d6 plus—I guess Crew again is the thing that you’re gonna do?
Ali: Yeah, let’s do Crew. Because it’s not... I don’t want to do Clash or plus Talk.
Austin: Yeah, I mean—yeah.
Ali: Okay. 3.
Austin: So 2d6+3.
Ali: Plus 3. Plus 3.
Austin: Oh, that’s an 8. I love that.
Ali: That’s an 8.
Austin: Yeah, you rolled 3 and a 2. So, you are truly exchanging blows with this thing at this point. You are being hit back with its heaviest weapons. I think you’re—what’s the—what’s the equivalent of just like, two ships—what’s the adjective we’re looking for here to give each other? It’s not just like “engaged”, but it’s like... I mean, actually, you’ve already—wait, how many—wait. That’s not good, Brnine.
Ali: Hm?
Austin: You’re already at—you’re already Targeted and Pelted, right?
Ali: Oh, perhaps I am. Perhaps—[laughs]
Austin: Well, now you’re a third thing.
Keith: Oh, no.
Austin: Which we didn’t—
Sylvi: This is going great for us.
Austin: This is going so good.
Ali: Oh—currently on the carrier, I—if I’m currently on the carrier, I get a fourth Risk.
Austin: Oh, that’s good. So you’re not Defenseless, then.
Dre: Ohh.
Ali: Whew.
Austin: What’s that from? Is that from a move?
Ali: Something. I know that it’s from something.
Austin: Here it is, I see it. “Additionally, both carrier and crew”—
Keith: [cross] It’s definitely there, just for sure. I also know that it’s there.
Dre: [cross] Yeah, no, it’s there. Yeah.
[Ali laughs]
Dre: I’ve seen it.
Austin: “Additionally, both carrier and crew are part of your character as far as Risks and Perils are concerned, just like an Astir is an extension of its channeler. To reflect the many minds and hands at work for you, you are Defenseless at four Dangers while at the helm of your carrier rather than three. [Ali: Mhm.] You go down with it and it goes down with you.” So I actually think that like, the Risk here is like—you know, you tell me what it is. You’ve suffered casualties not in the deaths sense, but in the wounds sense. Like, your people have been hit by a broadside blast from the Kestral White, this enemy ship. And like, the people inside of it have been harmed, right, like, so—I don’t know if that’s like, there’s an explosion down in the weapons bay and Routine gets caught in it. You know, he’s not dead, but he’s hurt from it. Or Midnite Matinee is, you know, caught with some of the grapeshot, like, you know, busts through some of the armor and catches her, you know, something like that. People are being hurt on board. You know, one of these Chariots probably blows up in this exchange, you know? You continue to lose people in that way. But you give it a—oh, you don’t. You don’t give it a Risk, [Ali gasps] because it—as your big cannon fires, the—some of the things that look like feathers on it activate, and are a sort of single directional shield. It pops up the like, new Gundam drone—like the bit shield, you know, like a laser grid shield in front of it that absorbs your shot and counter-shoots you, spending its one use of Ward, which it had not done yet. [Ali: Damn.] So you do no damage to it, in fact.
Ali: Man…
Austin: You know? You know?
Dre: Sometimes it be like that.
Austin: It’s got hands.
Ali: Brnine declaring, “Millennium Break demands justice,” and then fumbling. [laughs]
[Austin and Keith laugh]
Austin: You know, but you gotta cut the trailer right, you know?
Ali: Yeah, uh-huh.
Austin: So it’s like, they’re still gonna try to retreat. You didn’t do any damage here. You did blow through the—you know, their shields did deactivate when you shot them, [Ali: Yeah.] it’s just they did have shields.
Ali: Brnine has gotten media training. We’ll figure this out.
Austin: Mm. Mhm. Mhm.
Ali: What was the Risk that I took?
Austin: You tell me what it is, [Ali: Oh.] but it’s basically that your crew got hurt during this, right?
Ali: Damn. Um, yeah.
Austin: So Wounded, you know, not—more than Fatigued, but, you know. Bruised might just be right, you know, but it’s like, the crew is bruised. The crew is battered, you know? [Ali: Yeah.] It’s—it’s that larger thing. Um… so yeah, hey, Kestral White at least doesn’t have its shields anymore. God, I guess, again, Figure, you kind of encouraged that shot, but didn’t do anything else.
Combat - Thisbe
[1:05:25]
Austin: Thisbe and Mow, we haven’t been with you in a second. Zedd is just trying to like, strong-arm his way past you at this point, and get to safety. What are you doing?
Janine: Um… [chuckles] I think the plan at this—I have this image in my head, you know, of like, when a little kid doesn’t want someone to leave and they just like, hold on to the leg.
Austin: Yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah.
[Keith laughs]
Janine: I kind of have this image of Thisbe and Mow recognizing a certain type of situation and being like, “oh, we just have to stop him.”
Austin: “We just have to”—yep. Yep.
Janine: “We just have to hold him here, and then things will resolve. Someone will come, and”—you know, like, “all we have to do is hold him.”
Austin: Yeah. Alright, give me a Clash. Try to restrain this poor spy. This poor dirtbag chef spy.
Janine: Poor nothing.
Austin: 2d6+2.
Janine: That’s an 11.
Austin: That’s an 11.
Keith: He seems likeable to me.
Janine: Eat my shit, chef.
Austin (as Zedd): Aw, come on.
Austin: He says into the comms.
[group laughter]
Austin (as Zedd): You fuckin’ kidding me? [exasperated sigh]
Keith: See, that’s so likeable.
Austin: And—[chuckles] and yeah, you’ve restrained—I’ll give Restrained here. Pelted and Restrained. Boom. So yeah, now he’s Defenseless. Do you want to Strike Decisively and try to capture this spy?
Janine: Mm…
Austin: Or kill, you know?
Janine: I do want to capture, yeah.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: That would be good. I would like to capture.
Keith: Thank god someone is finally doing spy capturing.
[Austin and Janine laugh]
Austin: Alright, well, let’s—
Sylvi: I tried.
Austin: What is your—what is your technique here to capture this spy?
Janine: Um… I think—
Austin: You’ve held him in place.
Janine: Uh… What—I mean, so I like the idea of like—[chuckles] this is weird. This is such a combination of visual metaphors.
Austin: I’m excited.
Janine: I’m picturing Mow kind of like a bouncer, kind of like, restraining this robot.
Austin: [hums] Mhm.
Janine: But then I’m kind of picturing Thisbe coming in and like just, trying to crack him open like a coconut kind of thing. Just kind of like, trying to—trying to crack him open and scoop out the guy.
Austin: Right. Yep. Uh-huh.
Janine: You know?
Austin: Alright.
Keith: We’ve had a lot of different cracking mechs open today.
Austin: We sure have.
Janine: Yeah. This is like if a bouncer was restraining an avocado, you know?
Austin: Right. Uh-huh. Oh yeah, it’s just like that. I getcha. Yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Alright, 2d6 plus 2 with your Clash.
Janine: That is a 7.
Austin: Oh, that is a 7. “On a 7 or 9, you overreach. You succeed”—sorry—“you succeed, but choose one: you overreach or underestimate, take a Risk; you waste ammo or words, losing a weapon until you can re-arm, or losing the weight of some bargaining chip or piece of leverage; or you strike carelessly, causing collateral damage beyond your expectations.” As we’ve learned.
Sylvi: Pick that last one. What could go wrong?
Dre: Yeah, sounds good to me.
Janine: My dad’s not here, so.
[Austin chuckles]
Dre: Nothing.
Sylvi: [laughs] Damn. Get my ass.
Janine: [laughs] That’s what I said earlier, I realized none of my characters have had like, active parents. They’ve all either had parents that are long dead, or just like, are in the wind, possibly dead.
Austin: Yeah. Unrelated. Yeah, uh-huh.
Janine: Yeah. So I think the thing I’m gonna pick is that the—if this makes sense, Mow’s industrial arms are not available, ‘cause Mow is restraining a guy.
Austin: Sure. You lose them until you can re-arm, though, which means like, maybe he breaks them, you know? As a last—
Janine: Yeah. So would that be an action in downtime to fix it? Or is it just gonna happen?
Austin: Yes. There is a—it would be a—I want to say it’s the same thing—it’s the same thing that Cori has needed to do to fix her sword. I think it’s a Hangar scene, [Janine: Okay.] which is like repair the thing, you know? Uh… yeah, I think that’s what it is. Yes, yes.
Janine: Okay. That’s fine, I’ll go with that.
Austin: Cool. Alright. What do you do? You scoop him out. And as he’s, you know, it’s as you’re cracking the coconut open is him using his four arms to try to like—his four, number four, not his forearms, the mech’s numeral four arms—to bust Mow’s very strong arms, hydraulic arms.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: But in the process, he’s busy. And so you’re able to scoop him out. And he’s like, “[sighs] you know what, fine.” [Ali scoffs] And you’ve scooped yourself a spy. I will return the spy version of this token to the board, and you have it now. Obviously, don’t lose control of him, please, you know, but he’s yours.
Dre: [chuckles] Don’t lose control of him.
Austin: Or have you like, knocked him out?
Keith: “This chef is mine.” [chuckles]
[Austin chuckles]
Janine: I think I maybe do the thing that I planned to do with—what’s her name? Goop Goopington, uh… code name Gem.
Austin: Right, mhm. The Usher of Truth, code name Gem, yeah. Mhm.
Janine: I was gonna stuff her in Mow’s like, cargo compartment in his tummy.
Austin: Right, yes. Yes.
Ali: Ohh.
Janine: The gorilla tummy compartment, [Austin: Yeah.] which I think probably has an exterior lock kind of situation. I don’t think Mow has like, interior controls at this point.
Austin: Right. I got what you’re saying. Yeah.
Janine: Yeah. So it’s just like, a little tummy cell.
Austin: Alright. There we go. Put him in the tummy cell. Alright. That’s one down. That’s not so bad.
Keith: And we said we didn’t have a brig.
Austin: [laughs] You know what? True enough.
Janine: Well, this is like if your brig door was like, the back hatch of a minivan.
[Keith laughs]
Austin: Mhm. Alright, I’m gonna quickly flip a coin.
Declaring a Rival
[1:11:28]
Austin: Alright. Tea Time, in the wind. Leaving you only one spy remaining to potentially capture, which is Queue 1224, [Dre: Oof.] who’s somewhere inside of the Archive, the Glass Archive. Sorry, Phrygian, I had to move you so I could read my words that were underneath your big fridge token.
Keith: God, I thought we had one more spy to get.
Austin: Maybe one of the ones who got killed. Maybe Sea, who was already in the wind at the beginning.
Keith: Right.
Austin: I mean, you do. Elle is here. Elle is a spy. Elle’s on the spy list.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: Oh, great.
Sylvi: And we’re in such good condition to deal with that right now.
Austin: Oh, yeah. Elle is—
Keith: What, a blood mech? And its—
Austin: Elle is whispering into your cockpit, Cori, through the connection with the kind of blood aura version of her mech, and she’s like,
Austin (as Elle): It’s alright. It’s alright. It’s gonna be okay, sweetheart. We’re gonna get you out of here.
Sylvi: There is one message that comes through before Cori shuts off her communications, which is she says to Elle, “this is your fault.”
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: Uh-huh. Interesting.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Hey, do you want to declare a rival?
[Ali gasps]
Sylvi: I would love to, Austin.
Austin: I can kind of feel the rivalry.
Janine: I felt that from the second this character was on screen.
Sylvi: Thank you for reading my mind.
Janine: I was like, oh, this is a rival. This is what this is.
Ali: Let’s fucking go.
Austin: Mhm. We’ll work out the needs and wants later, but go ahead and write down…
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Go ahead and write this character down. Now, the important thing is, the second you do that, just to be clear, rivals get to do shit and, I guess, you know. Just—
Sylvi: I know. Oh, no, no, Austin, yeah, no, that’s what I’m hoping for. 
Austin: So go ahead and add them, add her to the sheet. Her pronouns are she/they. Her name, again, is Elle Evensong. One word, Evensong. Cool.
Combat - Phrygian
[1:13:20]
Austin: Who’s doing stuff? Figure, Phrygian?
Dre: Boy.
Keith: Well, I’ve got a—I have like, an idea.
Austin: Mhm.
Keith: I could roll with disadvantage to Strike Decisively on the bird.
Austin: You could.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: And you have a weapon that could do something, right?
Keith: Yes, I have a Bane weapon, [Austin: Fuck.] so I would—it would be one, it would be disadvantage. Otherwise it would be 3d6+3, disadvantage.
Austin: 3d6+3…
Keith: To kill this bird in one shot.
Austin: Plus 3 because your Clash is 3. Okay, I just want to talk through it, because this is—this is classic “the dice are conspiring for a sick moment”.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: 3d6 because you have disadvantage, and we would take lowest. We wouldn’t take highest.
Keith: Yes. Correct.
Austin: And that’s because you’re one tier under it, right?
Keith: Yes. Yes.
Austin: Because you are Tier 3, but you can boost up to Tier 4 because you have Buccal Outpocket, which has Bane. [Keith: Yes.] Bane lets you hit one thing above you. This thing is two things above you, but it would give you the bon—it would get you up close, you know, close enough to roll.
Keith: Now—
Austin: Now, Keith—
Keith: Here’s where I have to worm a little bit.
Austin: Go ahead, worm.
[Ali scoffs]
Keith: They’re retreating. Am I still targeted?
Austin: Yes.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Eh…
Keith: Are you sure? Because they’re retreating.
Austin: Mm… no. You’re right. Right, they’re retreating. Go ahead and clear that.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Which is good, because that gets you out of the…
Keith: Yes.
Austin: Yeah. I think that that... [uncertainly] mmm…
Keith: Well, you’re—
Austin: No, you’re still targeted because they’re not retreating, they’ve put up the “return to carrier” signal.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: They’re not—their back is not to you. You’re still in the targets, right? You’re still targeted.
Keith: Okay. Okay.
Austin: But the thing I want to give you, because I’m a fan of the players, you’re Elemental.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: They’re Mundane. So you would be rolling with disadvantage, but you would be rolling with Confidence, also.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: 1s count as 6s.
Keith: Okay. I would reverse it, but—like, I’d rather—I’d take the opposite over this, but I’ll take it.
Austin: What do you mean the opposite?
Keith: I would rather have advantage and Desperation.
Austin: [cross] And Desperation, but that’s not—that’s just not how it worked.
Keith: Right, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Like, they come from specific things. Also, I just realized this. Who has rolled with Confidence or Desperation today? Because there are additional things on that, which is—
Dre: Oh, me.
Austin: If you succeed with Desperation, you deepen a Hook, and if you fail with Confidence, you loosen the Hook.
Dre: Oh, okay.
Austin: I think anyone who’s rolled with Confidence has succeeded though, right?
Dre: I have, yeah.
Austin: Okay. Alright, then we’re fine. Alright. So, Keith.
Keith: Oh, okay. I have another wormy thing.
Austin: Uh-huh.
[Sylvi laughs]
Keith: I’m now standing still. Can I not be targeted if my optic camo is engaged?
Austin: Hm… that’s interesting.
Keith: It is very interesting.
Austin: I’ll give it to you.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Go ahead and clear—
Keith: Fan of the players.
Austin: Fan of the players. Go ahead and you clear that, so now you only have one Danger currently, which is Pelted.
Keith: Right. Yeah.
Austin: From this continuous barrage. Go ahead and—so it’s gonna be 3d6, [Keith: Yeah.] taking lowest, but 1s count as 6s, and we do that first.
Keith: Right. Okay.
Austin: Wait, no, we do it second, right? Because we’re doing fan of the players. We’re doing my best to be on your side here.
Keith: Right, yes.
Austin: So give me... Though it should be consistent, shouldn’t it?
Keith: Wait, no. I thought it was the same—it was the same either way. It was—it’s—
Austin: Well, it breaks different if it’s lowest. That’s the problem. If it’s…
Keith: Well—ohh, okay.
Austin: You see what I’m saying?
Keith: Okay, okay, okay. Um… hm.
Austin: Let’s—
Keith: So, before…
Austin: Yeah, earlier in this session, when we had Confidence—this is so in the fucking weeds, you know. I know that some people think we cut table talk, but. The—before, you rolled with Confidence, which meant—not you, but somebody rolled with Confidence—which meant that 1s became 6s, and they rolled with advantage or something, and so we said, “okay, we’ll let the 1s turn into 6s, and that means that”— before we take highest. In other words, we don’t throw out the 1s, we let them turn into 6s, and then we keep them. Right?
Keith: Right.
Austin: Here, would it be the same?
Keith: Yeah, it’s the same. Yeah, that’s—
Austin: Oh, but if they turn into 6s, that means that they’re high and you discard them. That’s the thing. You see what I’m saying? 
Keith: Ohh, right. Okay.
Austin: So if we’re consistent, that’s how that works. What you want here is some 5s.
Keith: Yeah, I want 5s. Yeah.
Austin: Or 6s. You want—or no, you don’t want 6s, because—
Keith: I think that we play it the way we played it before, [Austin: Okay.] which is also how we played it an episode ago, [Austin: Right.] you know, whenever—this same scenario, so.
Austin: Which is—
Keith: If I get a 1 and it turns into a 6, we throw it out.
Austin: We throw it out, okay.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: So 3d6, and again, that’s because you have advantage—sorry, you have disadvantage and you have Confidence, which actually fucks you here in some ways.
Keith: Yes. [chuckles] Right.
Austin: Well, I don’t know. Let’s roll it. 3d6 plus 2? Plus 3.
Keith: 3, plus 3, because my 3 Defy, which got moved to Talk, is now on Clash. [chuckles]
Austin: Buccal Outpocket, sniper rifle, shooting the big mech—or the big carrier ship. Alright.
Keith: Oh, wait, that was supposed to be one more. That’s supposed to be one more.
Austin: Yeah, you need one more. You need one more die. Just give me 1d6 to add to this.
Keith: 1d6…
Austin: And you have Confidence, right?
Keith: 3, 3, 3. That’s a 9.
Austin: You mean 3—wait. Oh, because you get rid of the 6, right? Yes.
Keith: Right.
Austin: That’s a 9. Okay.
Dre: Oh, can I help?
Austin: You could.
Dre: To put this on a 10?
Austin: I mean, you could. You would give Keith a fourth die to roll, yes. What’s your help look like, Figure?
Dre: Oh, right, it doesn’t just add like, +1.
Austin: No.
Dre: Okay.
Keith: So you would have to roll a 4 or better?
Austin: No, no—Keith—sorry, no. Figure would be rolling to give you another die to roll, Keith.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Oh, right. Okay, yeah. So I would have to roll a 4 or better.
Austin: You would have to roll a 4 or better, correct.
Keith: Right.
Dre: Yeah.
Figure Assists
[1:19:17]
Austin: So, Figure, how would you help with this? Phrygian is lining up this shot. The Kestral White is continuing to shoot this barrage of grapeshot to kind of keep everybody, you know, undercover and without being able to move except its own people who are trying to escape. What do you do to try to help Phrygian? [Dre hums] One of your better friends, I would say here.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, some sort of way of either distracting or slowing the ship.
Keith: So I can say from my end, this was like, Figure’s idea. This would not have occurred to me if it hadn’t been—
Austin: Mhm. Yeah, but I still want—that’s nice, but—
Keith: No, no, just another angle of ways to think about how you’re helping. Like this, this was—I got this cue from you telling Ali to do this.
Austin: Totally. I still need Figure doing a verb.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah, totally.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Boy. It is Figure… just bobbing and weaving through the grapeshot trying to get the carrier ship’s attention.
Austin: Okay, so you’re almost like “target me, target me. Don’t notice”—
Dre: Yeah, “look at me, look at me. Don’t look over there.”
Austin: Right, “don’t look at Phrygian.”
Dre: Yeah, “ignore that like, ’you’re getting locked on’ notification that’s on your HUD.”
Austin: Right, right. Yep.
Dre: “Look at me.”
Austin: Yep. Maybe you’re like, locking on repeatedly. For shots you know you’ll miss, [Dre: Sure.] but like, you’re giving it the lock on warning. You know what I mean?
Dre: Yeah, I’m just like pinging my—
Austin: Yeah. What is it, your magma launcher or whatever, right?
Dre: Yeah, well, I was gonna say I’ve got the needle familiars.
Austin: Oh, you do, yes.
Dre: And so they’re just like pinging off the hull over and over again.
Austin: Yes, I love that. Alright, you give me—
Janine: You’re DDOSing it, basically? [chuckles]
Austin: Basically, yeah. Basically. Alright. Give me 2d6 plus—you’ve spent meaningful time before this Sortie together, you had movie night. [Dre: Uh-huh.] So plus 1. You’ve—“they’ve Helped or Hindered you previously this Sortie.” Have y’all Helped or Hindered each other?
Dre: [strained] Ooh…
Austin: I don’t think—you were in different places for most of this thing, so no.
Keith: [cross] No.
Dre: [cross] I don’t think so, yeah.
Austin: So only 1. And then if they’re part of one of your Hooks, which they are.
Dre: Yes, they are.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: So it’s plus 2. 2d6+2. Oh my fucking God.
Dre: Okay, question. Question, question, question.
Sylvi: Wow.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Can I Heat Up to re-roll this?
Austin: Aren’t you already—did you already Heat Up? Or did you Cool Off?
Dre: No. No, I’m not heated up. Also, do I get any sort of elemental advantage here?
Austin: You’re Profane, right?
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: No, I don’t believe so.
Dre: Okay, okay.
Austin: Profane is good against Elemental, actually. And this is not—yeah.
Dre: Okay. Okay.
Austin: You would get that against Tenn Alpenglow, but not against—yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Helping me doesn’t need to be—you don’t need to be good against me to help me?
Austin: [chuckles] No.
Dre: No. [laughs]
Austin: Correct, correct. So you’re gonna Heat Up to do this re-roll?
Dre: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Alright. Let’s do their Heat Up move.
Dre: Um…
Austin: And is that—Heat Up is a generic thing that everybody can do, right?
Dre: Yes, yes.
Austin: Yeah, okay. Once per—
Dre: “When you push your Astir to its limits and start to Heat Up, you may take Overheating to retry a roll.”
Austin: Right.
Dre: The other thing I would ask, and I feel like I’ve asked this before, and I can’t remember what we said.
Austin: Mhm.
Dre: My Astir move is “while Overheating, take advantage when making a move that relies on your speed.” And I can’t remember—
Austin: Previously we have said no, because it’s doing this that gives you that action.
Dre: Yeah. Okay, that’s what I thought. That’s what I thought. Okay.
Austin: Yes, yeah.
Dre: There we go. That’s a 10. Let’s go. [laughs]
Austin: Yo, that’s a fucking 10. Alright.
Keith: Great.
Austin: So, go ahead and roll one more die.
Keith: Roll one more d6?
Austin: Yep. Mhm.
Keith: 4. That’s it.
Austin: That’s the 4 you need. That lifts it from a—so it’s 4+3+3 is a 10. What’s it look like? What’s your—
Keith: Oh, my—okay.
Austin: —rad sniper shot? Yes.
Keith: Behind the scenes, we’ve touched on this, I’ve been doing a lot of breath work.
Ali: This is true.
Keith: I set it up, I’ve been working on Caustic Breath.
Austin: You mean—yeah, uh-huh.
[Dre laughs]
Keith: You know, this is another breathing move that I have, [Austin: Mhm.] but it has sort of carried over to Buccal Outpocket. I can take such a deep breath right now.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: And—
Austin: And like, as you’re taking the breath—like, is the shot here like, you’re taking that breath, you’re bringing in the air, and as it—and then we’re cutting over and seeing Figure begin to like, get the Kestral White’s attention?
Keith: Right. While I’m charging up.
Austin: And it’s missing it. And for the sake of, you know, drama, more and more of the enemy units are retreating back on board. [Keith: Yeah.] They’re getting—they’re getting onto the ship because they think the ship is safe. Right?
Keith: Right, because it really, by all accounts, should be safe.
Austin: Absolutely should be safe. In fact, it just displayed how safe it is because it resisted the big cannon shot from the Blue Channel.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Yep. This—
Austin: Which, in fact, is in fact saving it in a sense, or has set it up for failure, because it’s used its shield now.
Keith: Yeah. I’m glad that Dre is—that Figure is doing this attention-grabbing maneuvers out here, because the air sack has grown so big, optical camouflage, it doesn’t even begin to cover it. This is like, you know, if we are—the last time that I used this, it was probably the size of like, a big beach ball. It is now the size of like, a car. Like a small car.
Austin: That’s so big.
Dre: That’s very big.
Keith: It is so big.
Austin: And then again, so again, we’re getting the shots of the grapeshot hitting the ground, and the remaining Gambesons—except for Free Fidelity, who has stayed in the water below—they’ve all fled on—they’ve all fled away. Tenn Alpenglow, I think, has managed to separate himself from Elle and boarded the vessel. He leapt back up into the into the Kestral White, shaking the whole ship. And we come back to you and it is this huge car-sized Buccal Outpocket, and you fire?
Keith: And I fire.
Austin: What do you hit that does so much damage that you’ve struck decisively against this carrier?
Keith: It is, you know, sheer speed penetrating through the hull of this ship into the engine room, up out the top of the engine, up out the top of the ship.
Austin: Mhm. We get like, that rapid, like, three cut of it hitting and busting all the way through. The like, boom, boom, boom from different angles. You know what I mean? And the whole thing just begins to careen. You know?
Keith: Right.
Austin: I know a number of us are playing Tears of the Kingdom right now.
Dre: Mhm.
Austin: You know when you’re on one of those cool wing things? Like the bird-shaped wing thing? And you just kind of—the glider—
Sylvi: The glider? Yeah.
Austin: When you like, lose control of it, and it like, tilts the wrong way, and you can feel—you’re not gonna go over—
Dre: Yep.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: [cross] No, I’m always in control of my glider.
[Keith laughs]
Austin: Okay, that’s good. Some of us aren’t great at life, you know?
Dre: That must be nice.
Janine: I’m a glider master.
Austin: [chuckles] Uh-huh.
Janine: It’s my—it’s my thing.
Austin: I’m good when there’s three of them connected, like three birds kissing, [Dre laughs] but otherwise it’s hard. And so, it does that thing where it just tilts—
[Sylvi chuckles]
Keith: Nose to nose to nose?
Austin: Oh, have you not seen this clip?
Keith: [chuckling] No.
Austin: I’ll send you this clip. It’s—
Janine: The more I play that game, the less I understand why you did that. [laughing] But anyway.
[Keith and Janine laugh]
Austin: Well, because I didn’t know I was gonna get the thing if I just went north, you know.
Janine: Right, yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: I was trying to—you put on a show, you’re on a stream. [Janine laughs] I streamed Tears of the Kingdom for a few hours, for Waypoint. It was one of the last Waypoint streams.
Anyway, the Kestral White does that thing where it falters, and it just goes like, tiiilt, and then it’s like a ship sinking. You know, it really is that style of like, it tilts to one side, and then it tilts hard the other side, and just careens down below the cliff. And I don’t know. I don’t know who lives and who dies, you know? [Keith: Mhm.] The whole thing crashes into the sea below and begins to take on water. There are explosions throughout. Who lives and who dies is a great question. Also—
Keith: Phrygian is extremely strong.
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Uh-huh.
[Keith chuckles]
Austin: This maneuver is extremely power—you immediately, of course, take a Risk about being exhausted, you know?
Keith: Yeah. Oh, this is actually—I think it’s the force of the projectile leaving my, like, arm gun [Austin: Right.] has like, done serious damage to my arm.
Austin: Right. Yep. Because this is the thing, you have to take a Risk when you do this, right?
Keith: Yes, yep.
Austin: This is the thing about this.
Keith: Which is why I did—which is why I wanted to not have Targeted. So I’m—I still have—I’m still—I’m back up to two instead of at three.
Austin: Right. Mhm.
Keith: So I’m gonna take, um—
Austin: Right. And now you’ve turned back to little Phrygian mode too. Right?
Keith: Little Phrygian mode, yeah.
Austin: Alright. Amazing. They’ve retreated.
Keith: “Torn” is my Risk.
The Final Spy
[1:29:03]
Austin: There is—is anyone going—does anyone have the energy to go try to find this last spy? Who’s—I mean, again—
Keith: Please someone do that.
Sylvi: Uh…
Austin: There’s two spies left, but one of them seems to be Elle, who I think we’re gonna have to deal with in a larger capacity, potentially.
[Dre hums]
Janine: Hang on. Is there still the robot spy?
Austin: That’s the robot spy who’s left, Queue. Queue 1224. That’s who I’m talking about, like, who’s gonna go get that spy at this point?
Sylvi: Did—where did we say they were last seen?
Austin: [cross] They are in the Glass Archive. Oh, do I not have… fuck. 
Keith: Is this—that’s this one here?
Sylvi: [cross] This archive or this one?
Austin: It’s them right here.
Sylvi: Oh, that one. Okay.
Austin: [cross] Yeah, I need to turn on their name tag for you to see, because for me, I’ve been seeing it the whole time.
Sylvi: I mean, I’d be—listen, there is a world where Cori goes looking for them, but I don’t think we get them back alive. [Dre hums] So, putting that out there.
[Austin laughs]
Janine: I was wondering if I could like… I don’t—I don’t know what the limits of Animation Matrix are. Like, is it possible to just like, send out a communication thing that’s just like, “listen”—[chuckling] listen. I don’t know.
Austin: To them or to…
Janine: To them, yeah.
Austin: Um… I—they are—I said they’re—
Janine: ‘cause I don’t know—what are we calling an Ardent?
Austin: I think that an Ardent is specifically what we’re thinking about when we talk about vehicles.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: Things that are not sentient, right?
Janine: Okay.
Austin: Mow is actually an Altar and not an Ardent, but I think we’ve established that you have that connection with him.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: But remember, things like elevators and jeeps.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: The APC that Griesel was piloting, for instance, is what would count as an Ardent. They’re like, Tier 2 things that aren’t quite—that don’t have personhood. You know, the Gambesons were Ardents, technically, [Janine: Mhm.] you know? In retrospect, you could have done some wild shit with that, but, next time, you know?
Janine: I—yeah, I thought about it, but a lot of it was just like, how do I convince it to do—you know? Like—
Austin: Right, it’s hard. Yeah, yeah, totally.
Janine: Part of it is the roll, but like, in the fiction, how does it make sense? It’s tricky.
Austin: Mhm. Totally.
Janine: Maybe in the future.
Austin: Yeah. You could—you know, you could send a message to the various walkways and elevators of the Glass Archive,
Janine: Oh my god, that’s true. That’s totally true.
Austin: And just have it kind of lock Queue in, right?
Janine: Oh, what’s the like, best—what’s the best machine in the Glass Archive?
Austin: I don’t know. You tell me. It’s like a big glass library city.
Janine: [cross] I want something juicier than like—yeah, a big glass library city…
Austin: I mean it’s like a model city, you know, it’s like, not actually the city, but it’s like the city, you know?
Janine: Yeah…
Austin: You want something juicier than an elevator. Or a crane, or a…
Keith: A juicer.
Janine: What about—[chuckles]
Austin: Don’t juice Queue.
[Keith chuckles]
Janine: So what about, you know those—the things they use to clean win—the ext—the outside of windows on big buildings?
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: The like—
Austin: How big? Are you talking about a person—are you talking about the kind that like, can lower all the way down?
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Like, that has—yeah, yeah, yeah, I gotcha. The window washer carrier guy.
Janine: [cross] Yeah. And it’s like you—yeah. Where it’s like, a row, and like, you can—I imagine a glass thing would probably have those, [Austin: Yeah, sure.] or some sort of degree of those in there.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: I want one of them to like, flip upside down and get them in a cage.
Austin: And like, pin—yeah, alright.
Janine: Like, I want it to be like a cage. [chuckles]
Austin: Um, I—you’re—what is this?
Janine: I wonder if there’s like—so, I wonder, like, if there’s a few of them in there, right? And it’s just—it’s a like, [Austin: Mhm.] Thisbe being like, “hey, when you sense this kind of life form moving beneath you, please do this. Please execute this maneuver.”
Austin: Right. You know, the thing I’m going to give you here is I still think it’s Talk.
Janine: [cross] Would this be Channel? Oh.
Austin: I think the difference with Channel is you’re like, commanding them to do it. I think like, I’m going to draw that line as the difference, right? That like, Talk is—
Janine: I mean, I’ll command them.
Austin: But you know what I mean when I say Command, right? Command is—channeling is you using your arcane ability to force them to do it.
[Janine hums]
Austin: Talk is telling—is asking them to do it. It’s treating them like you’re an operant. Whereas Channel is forcing them to do it with your robot magic power. [Janine: Right.] Overriding them to force them, which I think is an important distinction when we talk about robot sapience [Janine: Yeah.] and this middle ground where we’re talking about these are—these are robots. These are not people, but they exist with a sort of sentience. They exist with a sort of sentience that we wouldn’t call sapience, but is still something like personhood.
Janine: Right.
Austin: And I don’t know how Thisbe feels about that, you know? And I’m not—this is like—this is not me shots fired at Mako here, but like, Mako from COUNTER/Weight would do that with no problem. We saw Mako do that all the time, right? Mako hacked into robots to make them do stuff, because that’s what Mako did to do the heroic stuff that Mako was trying to do.
Janine: She probably wouldn’t default to that.
Austin: Correct. That’s my guess. Not “correct”, sorry, but.
Janine: There’s definitely situations where she would do it, [Austin: Right.] but I think that situation would actually, in this case, might involve line of sight. Like, if she could specifically see [Austin hums] “this is happening, the moment is passing, we have to do something now,” [Austin: Right, right.] I think that might be the thing that would push her into that. But in terms of like—
Austin: The sort of like, “oh no, they’re gonna get away.”
Janine: In terms of like a long distance thing, I think it might make more sense if it was—if it was more request-like. I hate that, because my Talk is minus 1.
Austin: But that’s good character work here. I think the difference between like, “I’m briefly using you like one of my limbs” versus “I’m compelling you [Janine: Yeah.] through force at a distance as if you’re a servant of mine” is much different.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: I do—I do feel there’s something happening.
Janine: “Please execute this action” is a much more like, “Thisbe interacting with other things” kind of sentiment for sure.
Austin: Yep. Yep. I agree.
Janine: Uh, what do I roll?
Austin: 2d6 plus—or minus 1 with Talk.
Janine: Oh god, minus 1 straight up, okay.
Austin: If there’s any way for you to take advantage or anything else, let me know. I don’t think there is.
Janine: I don’t think so, no. Other than the fact that I can do it at all, but that’s not really…
Austin: Right. I mean, that’s—that’s just—yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Janine: Yeah, that’s just having the thing.
Austin: Yep.
Janine: That’s a 5.
Austin: That is a 5. And unfortunately, I think the specific here is they’ve already been told not to—they’ve already been told that “if anybody tries to give you a command about me, they’re a spy, [Janine: Right.] and lock them out,” and you find yourself locked out. And Queue, which again is Q-U-E-U-E, like standing in a line. I guess people listening probably haven’t heard that the whole time. Queue 1224 disappears. Sneaking away.
Ali: Disappears?
Austin: From Asepsis’s view. You got two, right? You got Zedd, you got Marlon. Sea is here somewhere, right? Sea is—Sea is someone who maybe you could theoretically get in the future. But, you know. Sea has vanished into the depths of this facility somewhere. And technically you have—
Keith: Swimming down below.
Austin: Yeah, right? I mean—I will say it this way. Sea is the highest positioned of the people here. Right? And knows how to move through this place in ways other people don’t. And is the person who has the most authority here in terms of the spies, and the person who has the most skill. So, not surprising that you didn’t quite find them. I think Queue…
[Ali starts]
Austin: Go ahead.
Ali: I have a single spend left [Austin: Mhm.] to have an—[chuckles] have an ally appear somewhere where they are needed. But I don’t know where the spies are.
Austin: Well, you know that they’re—yeah.
Keith: Well, you just know that it’s where they’re needed. Is that good?
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Hm. What would that look like? How would you be doing that?
Ali: I’m emptying my captain coins wallet here. The—[chuckles] how would I do that?
Austin: Right. You’re saying—I just want to be clear. You can take these more than once. You could, instead, have given advantage or... you know what I mean?
Ali: Oh, no, no, no. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I’m just saying I still have 1 Hold to do something.
Austin: Right.
Ali: Which is either give someone an advantage or remove a Risk.
Austin: Or have an ally appear somewhere in a place they’re needed.
Ali: Right.
Austin: Yeah, I mean, you could—you could have an ally appear. And I guess, listen, an ally could be an NPC who’s an ally. Right?
Ali: Right.
Austin: You could send a message to an NPC. You could send a message to like, Luce, and be like, “hey, look out for this robot motherfucker.” Do you trust—Luce is like, the one robot you talked to last time who’s from here who you liked.
Ali: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Or who liked y’all. Or you could have sent Routine or Hunting or somebody...I mean, probably not Hunting. [chuckles] Routine or Midnite or someone else to go try to arrest this person or capture this person.
Ali: [wavering] Um... Midnite is both a scout and has her own Astir.
Austin: Right, yeah. Uh-huh.
Ali: So maybe I can give her orders not to like, directly engage, but to like, keep a tracker on…
Austin: On Queue?
Ali: One of them, yeah.
Austin: I think what we’re gonna end up with is a Crew roll to see if we can get the capture. Right?
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Because otherwise we’re not gonna wrap this up, which we gotta do.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Right? So it’s like, we get the window-washing robots blocking Thisbe out, and then we get, behind them, Midnite is already there.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: You’ve spent your token. Give me the Crew roll to try to capture this person.
Ali: [nervous] Hoh-kay.
Keith: Can I help with this roll?
Austin: I don’t think so.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: I think this is inside here. Let’s just—that’s—it’s a passing shot. You know?
Ali: Alright.
Austin: 3d—and it’s 2d6 plus 3. You know? That’s a fair roll.
Ali: That’s a 12.
Austin: You don’t need help. That’s a 12.
Dre: [chuckles] You don’t need help.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Midnite like, leaps on them. You know, hogties them so quickly.
[Keith laughs]
Austin: I believe, actually, Queue is he/him.
Ali: Oh, Midnite, big fan of rodeos. 
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Huge—
Ali: Really missing the Outback Steakhouse—not Outback Steakhouse.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: Please. Deep Dish Steakhouse.
Ali: The Steakhouse. What was that called?
Austin: Deep Dish. Deep Dish Steakhouse.
Ali: Deep Dish Steakhouse. Oh my god, sorry.
Sylvi: Deep Dish Steakhouse, yeah.
Austin: Please. Because they have deep dish steaks.
Keith: We already established that no one else knows what Texas Roadhouse is.
Austin: Right. Uh-huh.
[Ali chuckles]
Keith: That’s on a Clapcast somewhere.
Austin: I’m sure it is, yeah. And the two of them get brought back. So your captured spies number goes up to thr—or it goes up to two, but you already had one with Marlon, so that’s a bonus one. Total of three.
Keith: That’s half.
Austin: That’s half. My question is what you do with Elle, who showed up and is—you know, as the floodwaters recede, people are cheering around Elle. God, I guess some of the—some of the people, including one of the spies, did get on that ship and are dead, I guess.
Keith: Yep. Yep.
Austin: The people who decided “I’ll take my chances with Kesh” also on the ship which is now floating in the water slowly sinking. You know?
Keith: Oh, can we—can we deal with Red here also at some point?
Austin: With Red… Oh, yeah. Free Fidelity, you mean? You can’t see that name, can you?
Keith: Yeah, Free Fidelity, yeah. Nope.
Austin: Yeah, mhm. Yep. Got it. There it is.
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: There’s no—I need you to understand—
Keith: [chuckles] It’s so funny that all this time I—
Austin: —I have to click in to see if you can see. So I couldn’t even tell that you couldn’t see [Keith: Yeah.] until I clicked in to see who controlled the characters.
Keith: And this whole time I was like, you know, I know Austin comes up with the names, but he’s so good at remembering who all of these tokens are.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. Not even a little.
[Dre laughs]
Keith: And I’m just like, no, you just had the names this whole time.
Austin: They’re just in front of me. Yeah, uh-huh.
Keith: We’ve—for people listening who haven’t—do not realize the extent of this, we’ve never seen names on anything in any episode.
Austin: Yeah, it’s—uh-huh. Well, I want to be clear, I normally don’t do this, [Keith: Well, yeah.] but I was like, “there’s so many people, [Keith: Okay.] I’m gonna go out of my way to make sure we can all see them. That should make this smoother.” And of course, you can’t see them.
[Keith laughs]
Ali: Ah.
Austin: I’m so frustrated. [muttering] Roll20, I swear to god.
Ali: Roll20.
Phrygian’s Burden
[1:41:20]
Austin: Anyway. Yes, so Phrygian, this is the thing that I imagine that you are doing. Do you want to try to do your Strike Decisively with Talk on Free?
Keith: Uh, yeah. I mean—
Austin: I think this is what we’ve set up, right? And I think that what you see here, [Keith: Yeah.] what we, you know, the place that we see here is—Free Fidelity is, if I can paint this picture, is looking over the edge of this cliff down at the destroyed ship, and is like, you know, the mech is getting messages that are like “come save people. Come down here and rescue people from the wreckage. That’s your order.” And that’s what you’re competing against in this moment.
Keith: Yeah. Oh, that’s tough. I was gonna ask if—
Austin: [cross] Which includes the soldiers that worked with Free before. You know?
Keith: Yeah, yeah. I was gonna ask if like, having cleared a bunch of threats, if I could roll with advantage, but I don’t think that that’s fair considering that the alternative is like, you know.
Austin: Letting—
Keith: There is something personal about like, you know.
Austin: [cross] That’s what it is, yeah.
Keith: People that you know, um… that you might not necessarily hate—
Austin: [cross] And like, you know, this is the rare opportunity, where like, Free is like, “I could go rescue my people and let the other ones drown.” You know?
Keith: Right. Yeah. Go do that.
Austin: Is that what you say?
Keith: Yeah, I think that’s—I think that’s fine.
Austin: And that’s kind of the argument in a sense? Is like…
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. I’m not saying—yeah.
Keith: I’m not like, trying to take you.
Austin: Right.
Keith: I’m trying to help you.
Austin: Right. Alright, Strike Decisively with Talk.
Keith: Okay. I need to know… okay, with my Talk—
Austin: Which, your Talk is not—your Talk’s plus 1.
Keith: My Talk right now is plus 1.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Keith: It’s just that I don’t know which—because all of my buttons are—
Austin: I know.
Keith: Okay, I can roll Sense. There we go.
Austin: Oh, right, you have weird—oh.
Keith: Ooh.
Austin: That’s a 5, my friend. 
[Ali gasps]
Keith: That’s okay.
Austin: Oh, you hate it. You hate to see it. You truly—
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: And there’s—oh, there’s no Help or Hinder…
Austin: I don’t think anyone’s left to—
[Ali sighs]
Keith: No, it’s okay.
Austin: —make this break good for you, my friend. They turn around and look at you.
Keith: Oh, this makes Phrygian Defenseless.
Austin: Well, that’s if you—that’s if you take a Danger here, right? Which I don’t think you are.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: I think you’re taking a Burden, which we don’t do very often.
Keith: Okay. Tell me about Burdens?
Austin: Yeah, well, this is why I want to give you one. ‘cause I want you to kind of have to work through this. Burden says: “A counterpart to Risks and Perils, Burdens do not inherently put you in danger, as long as they are managed properly. When you enter downtime, you discard one of your tokens used during downtime to take part in scenes or gain benefits for each Burden you have, and describe what kind of upkeep or attention it requires. If you have the misfortune to earn three Burdens, you lose your downtime scene. Your obligations simply take precedence.” So it’s like an added thing—I’ll keep reading. “Burdens might represent long”—
Keith: Wait, so I lose one Burden forev—token forever?
Austin: No, until you address the Burden, right?
Keith: Okay.
Austin: And you can get tokens from other players if they have extras and they want to help you with something. “Burdens might represent long-term injuries or illnesses, but also might represent social circumstances or other duties that require regular attention. Your diplomat might be burdened with the need to report to their superiors, or your artificer might feel the burden of needing to personally run maintenance for all the crew’s Astirs.” In this case, I think that he looks at you and he says,
Austin (as Free): This shit’s never gonna end. It doesn’t matter what side I’m on. It’s never gonna end.
Austin: And leaps off the cliff to fly down and find his people and continue the fight from the side he’s already committed to. And I think the Burden for you is, you know, it is “I am a scientist who is meant to be researching a god, but instead I’m fighting a war, which is a worse job.” It’s this war—
Keith: War-weary?
Austin: It’s war-weary, yeah. This shit doesn’t end, man. Like, you just did something super heroic here in terms of the degree of success needed, the difficulty to achieve it, the fact that like, at the beginning of that fight, it didn’t seem possible that you could not just capture some spies, but like, knock out this enemy force in such a way, and you fucking hit the home run and like, okay.
Keith: I one-shot it.
Austin: You one-shot it. Who cares? Right? I mean like, we’re gonna move some tokens around, right? I’m gonna—we’re gonna call—we’re gonna go to downtime, we’re gonna go do a conflict turn, I’m gonna move some shit around on this sheet. This is one planet in a galaxy of millions of planets. Many of them, the war isn’t even happening on them. Not even the other war. The other war—
Keith: Oh, not just many of them, like…
Austin: Most of them.
Keith: Almost none of them.
Austin: Almost none of them, the Principality isn’t being felt—doesn’t feel this at all.
Keith: Two out of something hundred or something, like, what is the—is there even…
Austin: I mean, it’s probably more than the two, right?
Keith: Okay.
Austin: It’s not just Partizan and Palisade, right? Like, there is an effort, and there—and, you know, on your good days you’re like, “we’re hitting strategic joints. We’re hitting the places where it’s weakest. We’re at—we’re, you know, if we can prevent the Twilight Mirage from being invaded, that’s a clear, definite win.” But, dude, it’s just gonna keep going. And that’s not even talking about your war. The Branched have been at war with this place for hundreds—a thousand years?
Keith: Right. I’m fighting a solo proxy war.
Austin: And it doesn’t—does it matter? I don’t know. On bad days it doesn’t feel like it does, and it’s a fuckin’ bad day. And you won, so it makes it worse. When you win and have a bad day, you know? [chuckles]
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: War—yeah, “War-weary” feels right to me. So, we’ll see how you address that during downtime. And likewise, we will resolve the stuff that we said before about having captured spies be able to give you bonuses and stuff removing Grip. We’ll talk about that before we get to the conflict turn so that we’re all on the same page and we’ll update listeners when we get to the conflict turn.
Closing
[1:47:45]
Austin: Are there any remaining things we want to do here before we wrap? Cori, how are you feeling?
Sylvi: Uh… What a complicated question, Austin. [laughs] You know what? Less complicated, actually, now that I think about it. The answer is just bad. Um… I think once it’s clear that it’s safe to leave her mech, she climb—like, her mech stayed in just this like, protective position over her dad’s body the entire last bit of that combat. [Austin: Mhm.] And like, I think she tries to do first aid at first, and then really is like, well, no, this is pointless.
Austin: [cross] It’s pointless. It’s pointless.
Sylvi: And then, I don’t know, someone come get her, ‘cause she’s just gonna sit there until someone does.
Austin: Oh, it’s Saint Decario Dicario shows up, right? The head of the Devotees who is like,
Austin (as Decario): Cori, come here.
Austin: And like, offers you a hug.
Ali: One of us can’t get there first? [chuckles]
Austin: I mean, sure. Yes. You totally could.
Ali: [laughing] No, that’s okay.
Sylvi: I think it’s like one of those things where she will let herself be hugged, but she’s just kind of like, staring off into space while it happens.
Austin: And Dicario is like,
Austin (as Decario): I don’t even have the words to tell you what a good person he was and how proud of you he was.
Sylvi (as Cori): He didn’t get the chance to tell me, though.
Austin (as Decario): He told me every day. Every day. He was constantly asking me for updates about how you were doing and telling me how important it was to have you out there.
Sylvi: She’s just nodding, like…
Austin: Of course, of course, yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah. Like, not really listening at all.
Austin: Yep. Mhm.
Sylvi: I think there’s just like—it goes on for a little while, and then Cori is just like,
Sylvi (as Cori): I need to go back to the ship. I need to get in touch with my family.
Austin (as Decario): Take all the time you need.
Sylvi (as Cori): I gotta—I gotta call my brother.
Austin: Her brother, right. [groans]
Sylvi: Honestly, she probably has brothers. Like, I’ve confirmed she has multiple siblings.
Austin: Alright. We get the slow walk back to the ship.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Or does the ship come up and land closer now?
Ali: Yeah. Let me go pick Cori up.
Austin: Yeah, that makes sense. You go pick Cori up.
Ali: In my little hover car.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Ali: Beep beep.
Austin: Hop in.
Dre: Beep beep.
Austin: Who got the keys to the Jeep?
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Cori does not start crying until she gets in the car.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Ali: Brnine handling things emotionally lets her cry. [chuckles]
Austin: Mm, mhm. No trying to like, lecture, or like, assure. Just letting someone confront—
Ali: Well, we’ll see what happens in downtime, but no, I think it’s just the most awkward car ride. [laughs]
Austin: [cross] Oh yeah, we sure fuckin’ will.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Alright. I think Elle—does anybody mention that? I mean, again, Asepsis is like, “that’s a fucking spy. That’s a spy.” Pointing at Elle Evensong. Brnine, do you try to take Elle in? People are like, swarming around Elle, because unlike Cori, who they would also be swarming around in a positive way, Elle is able to pretend to be the—I mean, I don’t know, she did stab Tenn and blow up—kill the person who hurt Cori, you know? And all that shit, so.
Keith: Where’s my swarm?
Austin: You get a swarm.
Keith: Alright.
Austin: People are happy you took down that ship, for sure.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: But is anyone gonna try to arrest Elle while being, you know, celebrated?
Janine: Thisbe might.
Keith: I don’t think so.
Austin: You just show up, Thisbe? And what do you say?
Janine: That’s the thing, is like, Thisbe’s on the other side of stuff, so it’s like, I don’t know if Thisbe would go there, or…
Austin: Yeah, we’re in—we’re in do whatever—we’re in whatever time now. Right? We’re not in combat.
Janine: Actually, I think—I think Thisbe would actually ask Brnine.
Austin: Okay.
Ali: Um…
Janine: I mean, Thisbe might have gone there, but still like, asked Brnine.
Austin: Okay, I’ll move you back there, then. I think specifically, before we actually leave that, though, really quick, Thisbe, which is like, you’re over there and talking about people being like, happy, like, the Twilight Mirage and Twill people here saw you do extraordinary things to try to protect them, right? We talk about Millennium Break’s reputation and we talk about the Blue Channel’s reputation. Extremely clear to those folks that you were like—there’s no doubt in anybody’s mind who the Blue Channel is, and that like, if historically the vision of the Blue Channel had been “oh yeah, you guys go and do some dirt from behind the scenes to like, open up other people to be the big heroes,” like, those groups at the very least think of y’all as the big heroes today, and understand what you’re capable of in a broader way than just the sort of guerrilla opportunities that you normally get used for. But also, yeah, you can come over here and tell Brnine you’re trying to arrest Elle.
Ali: Um… oh, boy. Yeah, I—I think if Thisbe asks, then Brnine would be like, “yeah, if you’re capable of, you should go for it.” I think—I’m of two minds here, because I know Brnine initially was not into this plan, but I also feel like Brnine is a person who once you’re in it, you’re in it, and they’ve made the decision to be in it. So like, finish the mission, right? [Austin: Right.] Do the best job that you can. Get the SS ranking on the level.
[Janine chuckles]
Austin: Right, uh-huh.
Ali: So I think it’s like,
Ali (as Brnine): [noncommittal] Yeah, sure, Thisbe.
Janine: Okay. [chuckles] Then—
[Ali and Janine chuckle]
Ali: If you’ve got it, you got it.
Janine: I think Thisbe will, like, basically walk up to Elle Evensong, like, on foot, very—
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: Very—like, very—this—very like, civil. Like, this is, you know. And—is she still in her thing?
Austin: No, she’s on the ground talking to people.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: Like, next to her mech’s legs. Which, her mech is like, kneeling, you know?
Janine: Yeah. Okay, then I think Thisbe comes up alongside her and kind of like, ducks a little bit, as if whispering and—as if like, trying to whisper to her, [Austin: Yeah.] but Thisbe doesn’t really—I don’t know if Thisbe—I think Thisbe can speak at a low volume.
Austin: Sure. 
Janine: Like a—[chuckles] I was gonna say like a CD player, but you know what I mean.
Austin: [laughs] Like a CD player, yeah.
Janine: And I think she says,
Janine (as Thisbe): Because you fought alongside us, I am affording you the courtesy of asking you this directly, if you will allow us to detain you.
Austin: Kind of throws her hair back and is like,
Austin (as Elle): Detain me? Oh, I’ll come along. I’ll come along, just—just without any sort of restraints, for sure. You have some questions, I’m sure.
Janine (as Thisbe): Yes. Your cooperation is appreciated, Operant Evensong.
Austin (as Elle): Happy to oblige. Mhm. That’s it for me, everybody. I have some debriefing to do, I think.
Austin: I was gonna say ciao, but I don’t know what the equivalent is in our setting, but. So she just says,
Austin (as Elle): Ciao.
Austin: And walks—
Janine: It should be a fun word. It should be like a fun made-up, like—
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Janine: “Misk” or something, like, just like a little—blip. Just a little…
Austin: “Misk.” Uh-huh. We need to play a whole new game of Dialect.
Keith: What’s the reciprocal greeting—or, uh, what is the reciprocal to “misk”? Is it just “misk” again or is there a second thing?
Janine: Uhh… Skeel. I don’t know. [chuckles] I’m not—this is not—this is not—
Austin: Great. Got it. “Misk. Skeel.”
[Sylvi laughs]
Keith: Misk and skeel.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Ali: Just a crowd of people. “Skeel, skeel, skeel!”
Austin: “Skeel, skeel!” [laughs] That’s a Pokemon now.
Dre: God.
[Ali and Keith laugh]
Janine: Yeah, Miskskeel is like a—it’s like an eel, but it, like—
Sylvi: Well, Misk evolves into Skeel.
Janine: Oh, yeah.
Austin: Mhm. Alright. And yeah, Elle comes aboard. Like, as if—there’s a smoothness to her boarding that is scary. You know what I mean? There’s a degree of like, “now wait a second, we’re in—we’re—you’re our prisoner. You’re not supposed to be calm about this.” She feels like she is exactly where she wanted to be. You know? There’s a degree to which she feels entirely comfortable coming aboard. Asepsis is not pleased by this, Brnine. We’ll see how it goes.
Janine: Listen, Asepsis, you gotta be okay with prisoners if they’re prisoners. [chuckles] That’s… come on.
Austin: Mhm.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: No, Asepsis thinks that you should kill these people. What are you talking about?
Janine: Ah, okay, right. Sure.
Austin: Yeah, kill them. What are you—like, there’s not a question here for Asepsis.
Keith: Yeah, mop up the dirt.
Austin: [cross] Mop up the dirt—[laughing] exactly.
Dre: Mhm.
Austin: Alright. And I—you know. I think that we can kind of zoom out a little bit here. I imagine y’all stay and help clean up broken glass and take care of people again. Just as was gonna happen before, Saffron Septet is here to keep people—to like, help with the medical needs, you know, and that kind of is set up to try to capture any remaining spies, but there’s not—they’re in the wind. And, uh—or dead, right? And you get to kind of sustain the remaining folks here and make sure that they’re able to to recover over the next couple of days, over the next couple of weeks—
Keith: Hey, silver lining, real quick. No tomatoes, no flatbread, no celebrating.
Austin: Yeah, no celebrating, for sure.
Keith: These people are off the cycle.
Austin: They are off cycle, for sure. For sure.
Sylvi: Ooh.
Austin: Uh, or are they? I don’t know. I don’t know that you’ve earned that. I don’t know. Because it’s so easy—
Keith: Well, they missed a good day.
Austin: They missed a good day. But I think like, there’s a real chance tomorrow they’re like, “you know what? We should keep celebrating. We got—we can’t”—
Sylvi: They’re like, extra on-cycle.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: [cross] Right, exactly. They have to be like, “we can’t let this derail us. We can’t,” you know—
Janine: “The people who died would want us to continue.”
Austin: Exactly.
Keith: Yes. But—
Austin: “We’re here to mourn, but…”
Keith: Counterpoint, the spies are gone.
Austin: Some of them.
Ali: Some of them.
Keith: Well, a lot of the spies are gone or dead.
Austin: You have three of—three or four depending on how you count, yeah. Uh-huh.
Keith: Well.
Baseline
[1:58:38]
Austin: Anyway, we’re not gonna get into that, because the thing I actually wanna get to is—down in Baseline, they tried to do the revolution, and it failed, badly.
Sylvi: Oh.
Austin: Ce Gull and Broadleaf, the characters from the Wagon Wheel game, they’re dead.
Ali: [chuckling] Oh.
Austin: Period. They got killed.
Sylvi: Oh!
[Dre hums]
Austin: In the attempted revolution down there without your support. And that’s not the repercussion. The repercussion is that, hey, Baseline works. And so the advertisements hit the airwaves all across Bilateral Intercession space.
Ali: [whispering] Oh my fucking god.
Keith: [imitating news transmission signal] Boop-ba-doop-boop-boop-ba-boop. It works!
Austin: Baseline is a model city. We all love City City, but we can’t all afford to be in City City. But everybody can afford to be in Baseline. That’s why it’s called Baseline. Baseline is an opportunity. Baseline is the future for the people who can’t quite reach the future, but want to be the future. So come to one of our new Baseline cities. They’re popping up all across Palisade. The model works. And so, two weeks, three weeks from now, construction starts. Baseline 2. Baseline 3. Baseline 4. Baseline 24.
[Ali laughs grimly]
Austin: The settlers are on their way.
Keith: What is this, Bluff City?
Austin: [chuckling] Uh-huh. They’re coming, right? The first waves that came in the early days were people who were coming—who were part of construction efforts, who were part of military efforts, who were families of those people, or who were religious zealots brought here by the Temple of the Threshold, by the fake Gur Sevraq, people who were moved by this so-called New Asterism. This is secular. This is reaching people who are—just think it’s a good economic opportunity. This is people who aren’t necessarily committed to the war, or to the colonization, but think, “you know, maybe my life could be a little bit better at one of these Baseline cities. It seems like—it seems like it’s a good opportunity for my family. I could save money for my kid to go to a better university. You know, it sounds like it’s a beautiful planet, I’ve seen the pictures.” And so this is the sort of domino that falls. It isn’t just, “oh, we didn’t—we didn’t, you know, make this place a new foothold for the Cause.” It’s that in failing to do that, it becomes a poster child that proves the case. So we’ll have more things to deal with in the future here on Palisade.
[Music Outro - “Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt]
________________
[1] Spelling unknown.
[2] Spelling unknown.
[3] Spelling unknown.
[4] As of PALISADE 01, Phrygian’s pronouns were given as they/them.