PALISADE 11: The Wheels Turning Pt. 2
Transcriber: Anachilles
Recap        1
0:02:52 - Play begins        3
0:10:49        9
0:20:18        17
0:34:11        30
0:46:59        39
0:57:17 - Scene two        49
1:04:06        55
1:20:13        1
1:34:55        1
Recap
Austin: PALISADE is a show about empire, revolution, settler-colonialism, politics, religion, war, and the many consequences thereof. For a full list of content warnings, please check the episode description.
[“Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Austin: There is a place that Perennial feels like she is from. And she cannot go back to that place, whatever it is. Uh, that's how it feels. The second thing there is, is that why she's potentially here? Is there something here, either on Palisade or in the Mirage, that she thinks could break eternal return, or uphold it because it's being targeted, or get her a thing she needs?
Art: Yeah, I mean — I mean, not even the BIlats, why not have, why not have an auction? Why not have —
Jack: [chuckling]
Art: Why doesn't everyone send in their offer?
Austin: Oh my god.
Jack: Oh my god.
Art: But also like —
Jack: The Stargrave is just going to bomb the Crown of Glass.
Art: But like, furthermore, why can't Clem have this power?
Austin: [chuckling]
Art: Why can't —
Austin: Oh, now we're talking.
Art: Why can't the Witch in Glass draw Iconoclasts out of every door?
Austin: Now this, this sounds to me sounds like, this sounds like the Witch in Glass. If, if we run into another Millennium Break person at this point, it's clear, or another Cause person at this point, it's clear that they know about this place. But —
Jack: Oh, yeah.
Austin: I think this is a place that people try to hide from some early occupation of Palisade. The arrival of the New Earth Hegemony, or of the Rapid Evening, or of Advent, the Advent Group, or any of these other people who would use this place as a staging ground, I think it even predates the end of Twilight Mirage, but it became the place where the Divine Principality was born. I think it's very much like, an early place that people had to hide from the groups that were the antagonists in Twilight Mirage.
Jack: Automatic weapons fire rattles out, uh, and from between two buildings we can see the bright, like, 8 bright camera flashes, as —
Austin: [chuckles]
Jack: A Gray Pond unit engages the Tricerataurs.
Austin: Oh, the Tricerataurs, right!
Jack: Uh, and these Tricerataurs were, you know, either we were going to run into the Gray Pond unit, or we were going to run into the Tricerataurs, but they ran into each other first —
Austin: Right —
Jack: In these ruins below Braunton, and they started fighting.
[“Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt ends]
0:02:52 - Play begins
Austin: All right, who's up? Kesh, Nideo?
Jack: Yeah, I can go. I can go. Uh... every turn, place one grip on a faction or pillar of my choice.
Austin: Schew...
Jack: Just off the bat.
Austin: Off the bat!
Jack: Uh, and...
Austin: Oh, we should go over this really quick, because it's important, worth saying. Currently, gripped — one grip on, uh, we've lost one grip on the Diadem Gravtrain, we've lost one grip on the Bontive Valley, it's one of three. Once those get all the way, once it's three, uh, or once we have zero grip left, then they can be targeted by the Cause, in order to be, in order to knock them out, to make them fallen. But, there's also factions that have grip on them. Violet Cove currently has one grip on it. Uh, and it's also worth saying that Violet Cove, Rose River, and now Gray Pond are all tapped.
Jack: That is —
Austin: Which is a problem.
Jack: That is a problem, and it is the majority of factions, because we are not going to be calling on the Blue Channel in our scenes.
Austin: I — you know, it is worth saying, I had some conversation with some, good conversations with some people on the Armour Astir Discord about this, where, I think it would be weird for us to call them the Blue Channel, because of them not being here, and I don't want to tell you what Brnine did, uh, but, I will say it does give them a severe, it does give the Cause a, a big disadvantage, right?
Jack: It does.
Austin: Because that is one thing that they can't get called on. Uh, I think... I'm happy to continue that way, but I'm also happy to, if it gets down to it, occasionally be like, “Hey, would someone agree to help here?” [chuckling] In our chat —
Jack: I think that that is interesting. Yeah.
Austin: And see it anyone says yes. But, but, you know, this is the, this is the other side of this. You know, there's also another way that we could have done it, which is like, the Blue Channel could have not been its own faction, it could have been part of a bigger faction that they don't get to decide what they do. But I really wanted to lean into Brnine being in command of one of these units —
Jack: Yes.
Austin: And to see that develop out, the Blue Channel having the sort of relationship it has with the commanders back at, at Cause HQ, so to speak, who we have not seen onscreen yet, right? We know that Gucci, Gucci has been positioning herself as a sort of middle, you know, like the middle channel between leadership and, and the Blue Channel. But not necessarily, uh, calling the shots. So, worth thinking about. Anyway, who are you taking — what are you, what are you putting grip on here?
Jack: Uh, I'm going to stay focused, and I'm going to put a grip on Violet Cove.
Austin: What's that look like?
Jack: The last time I put — [chuckles]
Austin: Uh-huh?
Jack: I am logging onto... Yelp, to leave mixed reviews. [chuckling]
Austin: For who?
Jack: [laughing] Of my first spy.
Austin: Marlon? Marlon did, Marlon did great. At the end of the day, did or did not Marlon get you information that was that the Blue Channel —
Jack: I have some big questions about that, when we actually get into the scene proper. But, but yes. Uh... what does this additional grip look like?
Austin: Actually, hold up. No, no, no. First and foremost, you have a scheme. It is, uncover the Cause's membership.
Jack: I do have this scheme. And —
Austin: That advanced —
Jack: I wrote down in the notes what I —
Austin: That should have advanced.
Jack: Listening to the episode was, “Does Styx report back?” Question mark.
Austin: Yes!
Jack: “ What do I know?” Question mark. “They were at the party, where the entire cause was there.”
Austin: But they only got one name, and that was Phrygian and the Blue Channel. They don't know who those other people are. They don't know who, who's — that was a masquerade ball, Jack.
Jack: Uh, that's — I, I suppose that's true. Uh, the thing that I'm interested in, right, is —
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: We, we have established that at least at the beginning, the authority is not aware that there is a unified force of —
Austin: Correct.
Jack: A position on the planet. And I'm curious about how that sits against seeing this party, where someone from the Blue Channel, which I presumably know is Millennium Break —
Austin: Yep.
Jack: Was there. Along with a bunch of other people.
Austin: I think that you imagine — the, the, uh, supposition is that those people are Violet Cove, or Twilight Mirage people. Because the whole thing was about welcoming the Twilight Mirage here.
Jack: Right. Yes.
Austin: Right? So I think what Marlon has said is, “I talked to this person Phrygian, they were here with someone named, uh, uh, Kal’mera—” nope! [chuckling] “Kalvin Brnine. Uh, and they're from, they have a ship called the Blue Channel, they work for Millennium Break. So that's, Millennium Break is working with the members of the Dim Liturgy and the Devotees, and Twilight Mirage.” Uh, they also did talk to Jesset City, but Jesset City is Millennium Break, right?
Jack: Yep.
Austin: And so you don't necessarily get to Gray Pond from Jesset City, uh, you don't necessarily get to Oxblood Clan, even, right? Jesset City is from Millennium Break, they're talking about Millennium Break business, et cetera, right? So I think it's — and, remember, the Devotees are also from Twilight Mirage. So it's easy for them to be like, “Oh, it's this weird Prophecy cell, it's the Divine — uh, the Divine Devotion and its people. It's the new Twilight Mirage people, it's Millennium Break.” But safe from that are the rest of the groups who were there in costume and masquerade, who were being assumed to be members of those other groups, you know?
Jack: Yeah. Yeah. I agree.
Austin: But I still, think it ticks forward one, from 1 to 2 —
Jack: Making it — yep.
Austin: Out of 4. So —
Jack: Out of 4.
Austin: So you're, you're halfway there.
Jack: I have a quick question about the Blue Channel.
Austin: Sure.
Jack: The Blue Channel flew in the final battle of Partizan.
Austin: It sure did.
Jack: Uh, during which many Bilateral ships were also involved.
Austin: Well, before they were Bilaterals. They're Curtain ships, but yes.
Jack: [chuckles] Yeah, that's true. Uh, I can make a reasonable supposition —
Austin: And, and which people saw, by the way. Which, by the way, remember —
Jack: Yeah, oh, yeah.
Austin: The events of that are what led people to believe that Millennium Break are terrorists.
Jack: Yeah, fully. So, so, I, I know not just that Millennium Break are on the planet, but the, the, the ship, the Blue Channel, which was central to the events around the, the, uh, uh, what Connadine calls the Partizan Affair, [chuckles] uh, and also I can probably, I'm really trying to not to be foolish with these people that are trained spies. If I heard that there was a ship called the Blue Channel crewed by someone called Captain Brnine —
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: Could I make a reasonable guess that that might be an assumed identity of Kal’mera Broun?
Austin: I think that's a stretch. I think that's unfair to... I think that has to be a dice roll. You have to, you have to, you have to earn that a character makes that correct supposition. If you are a player character —
Jack: It could just be a coincidence that, that the Blue Channel has a new captain whose name is one vowel away from —
Austin: Of course there — [mumbling] Of course the Blue Channel has a new captain. It's been 5 years, it's a terrorist organization. They reuse assets.
Art: Yeah, it's the — like, that's the flagship, as far as we know, too, right? That's the Millennium Break lead ship.
Austin: It was 5 years ago.
Art: Like, why wouldn't it have a new captain after 5 years?
Austin: Right. I think that you have to roll dice for that, partly because we're talking about a player character explicitly changing their identity to protect it, obviously in a very goofy, funny way. But also because I would ask that much of a player character too, right?
Jack: Right. Right.
0:10:49
Austin: Uh, I would, we did the whole thing with the Witch in Glass, remember?
Jack: This is — this is —
Austin: And it took until you see the Witch in Glass, until everybody goes, “Ah, it's Clem.”
Jack: This is one of these situations, where the dice are modeling a — sometimes when we roll dice, we roll dice because we're trying to see if an arrow hits somebody.
Austin: Right, uh-huh.
Jack: But here we are, here the dice are a mechanical function to address the fact that, that this is consequential — this is a very consequential piece of knowledge to have.
Austin: Correct.
Jack: And even though it might, to us, seem very obvious, within the fiction, both kind of structurally and —
Austin: We are playing a genre work, right. Exactly.
Jack: Yes.
Austin: Uh, uh, and to be clear, you have things. When this division wins a conflict scene, choose one. And one of the things you can choose is, the Authority learns a secret about the Cause or a faction. If you got that, I — there's no reason — that's it, you've learned it. 100 percent.
Jack: That's the mechanical check. Yep.
Austin: 100 percent. Or, if Marlon had gotten from Brnine that Brnine had previously gone by Kal’mera Broun, that would have gotten it for you.
Jack: Yes, yes.
Austin: But that did not happen.
Jack: This is why you need to be careful talking to the spies.
Austin: Right, totally. Or, if we had a sequence where Brnine was trying to lie to Connadine and failed a roll, Connadine might intuit, wait a second, you're just Kal’mera, you're the person who used to go by Kal’mera Broun, you know —
Jack: And —
Austin: That's the sort of thing that would be —
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: On the, like — I'm not just going to give it to, to, uh, uh, —
Jack: The Bilats.
Austin: Uh, Connadine, the Bilats, without some sort of mechanization of that. Because it's an interesting thing to hold, at this point.
Jack: And we've seen this happen. Like, right now, we know that the Blue Channel is on the planet.
Austin: Correct.
Jack: Uh, because Phrygian [chuckling]
Austin: Right. And you know that Phrygian was in the previous conflict for sure, right?
Jack: Yes. Yes, that's true.
Austin: Oh, yeah, they were in with a Branched, right?
Jack: Branched on the planet.
Austin: But think about who's not on the ship anymore. Uh, uh, you have not seen, uh, uh, your character, uh, whose name I said earlier and then have forgotten.
Jack: Kalar.
Austin: Kalar. Kalar Anakalar. We have not seen Exeter Leap. We have not seen — I guess Exeter Leap was not in the, on the ship in that last mission. Uh, we have not seen, uh, who else have we not — I guess Valence —
Art: [snorts]
Austin: Valence was also not in that last mission. Uh, Sovereign Immunity, uh, dead. Millie, gone.
Art: Millie.
Austin: So, right. So, so, there has been a big change over in the crew in some ways, right? There are all new people on that ship too, right? So...
Jack: Yeah. And this is a really interesting tension that comes out from us not playing this game like a hidden information game, you know.
Austin: Correct. Yes.
Jack: And, and explicitly being like, “We listen to each other's recordings, because that —“
Austin: [chuckling] Uh-huh.
Jack: “Helps us make the kind of show we want to make.”
Austin: Yes.
Jack: Uh, but that is always going to produce this kind of tension when we're talking about like, “Well, what do we know that characters don't?”
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: Uh, or vice versa.
Austin: What we know is —
Art: The Bye Bye Greasy Effect.
Jack: [chuckling] The Bye Bye Greasy Effect.
Austin: It's the Bye Bye Greasy Effect.
Jack: [unintelligible] It's the Bye Bye Greasy Effect.
Austin: We know. We know.
Jack: We know.
Art: We know.
Austin: Uh, what we do know now is, I do think that, Con — what you're flagging to me is, Connadine is interested in who the fuck is piloting this vessel. And maybe Connadine does have the, uh, the suspicion, but wouldn't act on that suspicion yet, you know what I mean?
Jack: Acting hastily on things as a member of the Curtain is a bad move.
Austin: [chuckles] Yes.
Jack: Gets you killed, regularly, by other members of the Curtain.
Austin: Exactly.
Jack: Uh, okay. That's good to know. But with that in in my mind, I think something weird happens to Marlon, which is that, just as things start heating up for them, uh, you know, when we last saw it, Phrygian was being interrogated about, you know, “Who was that person you spoke to?” Uh, —
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: And Marlon is getting ready to, like, uh, call this whole operation a bust. Things are getting really hot on the, uh, Isle of the Broken Key. And — that's what it's called, right? The Isle of the Broken Key?
Austin: Yep, you got it.
Jack: Uh, and, then suddenly they start getting way less hot, as, uh, an elder monk, who has been part of the community for ages, since, you know, as far as Marlon is concerned, you know before he showed up, sort of takes him under his wing. And is not explicitly, you know, never says, you know, “Oh, I'm with the people you're with.” Uh, but, but there is this moment of like, “Oh, the depth of the the infiltration is stranger than I thought. Was this a sleeper agent that was woken up?”
Austin: Right, right.
Jack: “Is this someone who, uh, was sent in after me and has assumed the role or assumed the visage of someone who was here before? Am I just mistaken? Uh, is this something that was prophesized?” Uh, but there's this, this bizarre feeling of like, if, if Marlon and M was this like, fairly junior monk, this is like, the person who the abbot is chatting with in the evening, or is like, “Oh, old Septimus, or whatever, everybody likes Septimus's, like, uh, seaweed wine in autumn, or whatever.” And it's like, “Everybody knows old Septimus.”
Art: Eugh. Eugh.
Jack: It's this deeply sinister feeling of like, “Oh, wait, now he's, now the heat is off me, and I think it's this guy's doing.” And this represents the second grip.
Austin: Interesting. Okay. And that's not even your scene.
Jack: No. [laughs] I am looking at... my options. We played a chase last time, didn't we, Austin?
Austin: We did. Nothing wrong with doing another chase.
Jack: Nothing wrong with doing another chase. Nothing wrong with —
Art: Staple scene for a reason.
Austin: Mm-hm!
Jack: But I'm also looking at one on one, which is interesting.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: They're kind of two sides of the same coin, of a...
Austin: Well, one of them's more of a duel, right? The one on one is a sort of more direct clash. This is, this is very, uh, Cass and Aria, isn't it?
Jack: Yes. Yeah.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: [sighs] I want to respond to the players. Uh, in terms of the, the fiction. You know —
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: We saw something very interesting happen, which is, they thwarted the coronation of —
Austin: They did.
Jack: Constantina Malady. And I think it would be... and that felt like a really fun response to what we did. And I think it would be fun to take a similar response to be like —
Austin: [chuckles] I just want to also highlight something really quick, which is we did, I guess, technically, show what was in the trunk that was shown to Gentian, by Constantina Malady.
Jack: It was an Iconoclast, right?
Austin: It was an Iconoclast, or it had something to do with Gentian's dreams, and the way that the Iconoclasts offered all of the player characters an opportunity to achieve something through the Iconoclastic power. Remember? The like, hey, do you want to just choke the Witch in [laughing]
Jack: Oh, yeah. [laughing]
Austin: In Glass to death? Do you want to... et cetera? So Gentian had that sort of experience, presumably. I wanted to confirm that, before we now — how would you like to respond to derailing the coronation, permanently? Because Constantina Malady, gone now. In fact, do we — in fact, is that, is this disfavorable? Is that — maybe that's part of why there was disfavor to Nideo —
Jack: [chuckling] Yeah.
Austin: Right? Is, holy shit, we — you announced a coronation, and then had to cancel it.
Jack: Yeah. Oh, man.
Austin: Also, people didn't think — if people didn't think Millennium Break were terrorists before, they [laughing] assassinated the duchess?
Jack: Yes, yes, absolutely. Uh...
Austin: [chuckles]
Jack: I want to get her back.
Austin: The duchess of legend? Interesting. You want to get her back.
Jack: I, uh, —
Art: This is good, because I also planned to use my turn to try to get some of the heat back for, uh, the rival, the big bad —
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: Uh, and I think I want to get her back twofold. Two things need to happen in order for me to get her back.
Austin: That works, yeah. Uh-huh.
Jack: Two things need to happen at once. One: the Paint Shop needs to train an actor. That's step one. That person was an Iconoclast. I'm not messing around with that.
Austin: Right. Right.
Jack: We need a new Constantina Malady. We need to get this show back on the road. Secondly, we need to get the Iconoclast [chuckling] off the board.
Austin: [laughs]
Jack: That is an [laughing] extremely dangerous —
Austin: You don't know where, but you don't know where she is.
Jack: I do not know where she is. But —
Austin: Okay.
Jack: I am, uh, going to play, uh, chase. Two volunteers play: one Hunter, and one Hunted. They should decide between them which takes the role of an Authority member, and which represents the Cause, on what level the chase is occurring — on foot, in astirs, et cetera. And why it is happening. Decide where the chase takes place, and who is at risk, should things get messy. Freely roleplay the chase. During it, anyone may ask anyone else for details on the situation and circumstances. Other players may embody bystanders, the environment, and so on when required.
0:20:18
Austin: Uh, and this plays very similarly to the, the scene with the invisible minotaurs, something that we will not be able to surpass this recording.
Austin: [chuckles]
Art: [laughs]
Austin: You never know.
Jack: Where we're taking roles and we are, uh, asking challenges. What I have done, or rather, what the Stargrave has done, uh, because again, I'm playing the Bilateral Intelligence Services, sort of the Kesh branch, and while that is generally Connadine of the Paint Shop, I also have the Stargrave, who is the —
Austin: Right.
Jack: The military sort of, uh, chief on the planet.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: At least for Kesh. And, uh, the — you know, train the actor, that's Connadine's job. Get the Iconoclast, that is the Stargrave's job.
Austin: Mmm.
Jack: And so, she has spread a net. Uh, she heard that this was likely to be traveling by water, based on where the thing was taken. Uh, and where —
Austin: Right, do we just get like an image of Bilateral Intelligence Service, like, satellite, you know, satellite imagery, following the Blue Channel as it heads towards the shore, before like, turning and going cloaked, and so you're able to like, extrapolate that they probably dropped it in the sea here, here, or here?
Jack: Yes. It's the weird little freaks and the prisoner who go up and down on the spinning thing.
Austin: Right, yeah.
Jack: [chuckling] If, which, if you've seen The Prisoner, you know exactly what I mean.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And if you don't... uh-oh.
Jack: You'll be fine. So, I have spread a net, uh, as the Stargrave. Uh, uh, on the lower part of the, uh, the, the planet. Uh, oh, wait, hang on. Where did they drop it off? Can we ping it?
Austin: They dropped it — yeah, I'll ping it. They dropped it off right — it's where they are. It's where they dropped it off, is the Blue Channel —
Jack: Oh, here.
Austin: It's up here. It's this little place, yeah. It's right here. Yeah.
Jack: Okay, cool. So, wow, this thing's going to go on a [laughing] journey. Oh, I suppose it could actually go around the other side of the map.
Austin: Mm-hm. Well —
Jack: This is —
Austin: Yeah, it's going, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's going that way, and also presumably —
Jack: It has to cross the Diadem.
Austin: Well, presumably it's being picked up, Jack. It's not just going to sit in the —
Jack: Yes, that's true.
Austin: The Witch in Glass is sending someone out to get it.
Jack: But I think that, that, that it is being picked up in a boat. I think I want, like, a sea chase.
Austin: Mm-hm. Mm-hm.
Jack: Uh, or, or, or a water chase. Uh, and so we have these, uh...
Austin: I do need to flag a thing that we'll have to figure out how to unpack, depending on how this goes, which is that, unlock the power of the Iconoclast for herself is at 1 of 4 already.
Jack: I think that we might —
Austin: I just want to make sure that we have that in mind as we resolve whatever is happening.
Jack: Yeah, I was, I was thinking about this, and I was thinking that, that any way success would go would be about getting closer to or having an understanding of where the Iconoclast is —
Austin: Sure.
Jack: Less, getting our hands on it.
Austin: Right, gotcha. Okay.
Jack: Uh, I want to; I want to honor the fact that —
Austin: Yeah, then I would say that we might want to make sure that's — that we can't, because, what are the outcomes on this chase?
Jack: We walk into a dead end, can the Hunted still escape? And, an escape is in sight, can the Hunter catch up in time?
Austin: Okay.
Jack: A third party intervenes —
Austin: Okay.
Jack: Whose side are they on?
Austin: So the answer to those could always be, “Yes, I get away.” Not I, but — yes, it gets away. But that doesn't necessarily mean the...
Art: It fails —
Austin: They fail the, the actual game. Right, exactly.
Jack: Yep. Yeah.
Art: Because Kesh is the side that can actually win a scene.
Austin: Right, yeah. 100 percent. Kesh is, Kesh is strong. Kesh is a 5.
Jack: Yes, Kesh.
Austin: You need a 5 or a 6 — yes, Kesh. You need a 5 or a 6 to beat Kesh. So, it's a boat. It's some sort of sea vessel, picks this up.
Jack: Uh, for — yeah, Art, what is the pickup?
Art: What would a Perennial version of just like an all-out speedboat look like? One of those —
Austin: [chuckles]
Jack: Oh, so we're just going for like a real James Bond vibe —
Art: Miami Vice —
Jack: Here? But, Perennial?
Art: Yeah. But, I, I, I think I'm going more, I think I'm going for like, Miami Vice.
Austin: Right, yeah. I think it is —
Art: Uh...
Austin: Uh, like looking at a flower petal, but made of, you know, boat stuff, carbon fiber or whatever. But it has the sort of like, folds of like, you know, one third of a lotus flower. Do you know what I mean? Like, imagine that style of layered, one petal over another petal over another petal. But like, as if it were a speedboat. What if a flower were a speedboat, you know?
Art: Sure, no, I'm with you all the way on this one.
Austin: And also very glossy, in my mind.
Art: Uh-huh. Well, it has to be shiny, otherwise it's not fast.
Austin: Right, that's true. Yeah.
Art: That's just physics.
Austin: Mm-hm. And it has hauled this ancient sarcophagus onboard.
Jack: [muttering] God.
Austin: But it's a, you know, it's a space, you know, we're Sci-Fi, it can do that. It can do lots of things.
Art: Yeah. I mean, maybe it's almost water-skiing it.
Austin: Oh, that's very fun, actually.
Jack: This is some, this is real Indiana Jones, Ark of the Covenant shit, of just this deeply unholy object being transported by a speedboat, you know.
Austin: Mm-hm. [chuckling]
Art: Mm-hm. Yeah.
Jack: Uh, and I think that —
Austin: Jack, I gotta tell you that the Ark of the Covenant is actually a [chuckling] very holy object in the stories.
Jack: [laughing]
Art: [laughing]
Jack: Right. You're right.
Austin: It's the Nazis that are unholy, and suffer for it.
Jack: Right, it's, it's in fact the Nazis [chuckling] that are unholy. Yes. I remember that it melted people, and I forgot that the people it melted were —
Austin: [laughs]
Jack: [chuckling] The Nazis.
Art: Were the leadership of the Third Reich. That's the —
Austin: [laughing] Uh-huh. Yeah.
Art: It's an important part of the story.
Austin: [laughing] It is.
Jack: It's a, it's a critical part of the story. The thing about Indiana Jones movies is that, about halfway through, Indiana Jones invariably falls into a snake pit, and that's all I remember from the rest of the movie.
Austin: Yeah, that's fair.
Jack: Frankly, it's impressive that I remembered that there was melting.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: Uh... your radio crackles to life. Who is, who is on this boat? Is it a team?
Austin: [whispers] Great question.
Art: Yeah, I think it's 4 people. Like, a pilot, a co-pilot, someone who's in charge of like, the rigging on the thing.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Art: And then like a muscle.
Austin: Sure.
Jack: And the voice over the radar says, 
Jack (as Voice): Mayday, mayday. Uh, anybody in the vicinity? Mayday.
Art: I wouldn't answer that if I were transporting —
Austin: No. I think one of the four people has to say, 
Austin (as Crew): Ignore it.
Art: Yeah. The security one, probably.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh. [chuckles] Who, by the way, is probably sort of like Figure in Bismuth in terms of having some sort of, uh, crystalline or plant-like, uh, you know, appendages or prosthesis —
Art: Bismuth-y.
Austin: Right. Uh-huh. Yes. I don't, I feel like it's different — I don't remember exactly how our world-building went that season. I don't know remember if they all have the Bismuth, or if it's different types of crystals, or if it's different types of stuff in general. It's been a little while since I checked those original notes. So... but, imagine, you know? Follow your heart in describing these, or in, imagining these folks.
Art: Well, this is a stealth security person. So it's like —
Austin: Ooh, yeah.
Art: This is like an obsidian.
Jack: Ooh.
Austin: Yeah, love it, great.
Art: Unless this is contradicted by the lore, in which case it isn't —
Austin: It's been 5 years.
Jack: We get to decide. It's been 5 years. Could it even be Gur Sevraq? It's probably not. I think it's probably your conscience.
Austin: It's not Gur Sevraq.
Art: [laughing]
Austin: Oh, that, yeah, that's —
Art: One of the, the co-pilot is Gur Sevraq.
Austin: Right, Gur Sevraq has been projected into a new pilot body, don't worry about it, it's fine. No, it's not Gur Sevraq.
Jack: Much like Crusader Kings, you can only have one antipope at a time —
Austin: Correct.
Jack: Otherwise the simulation starts getting difficult.
Austin: It breaks, yeah, uh-huh.
Jack: Yeah, uh, I'm making the move — I lead you into a trap. Roll to see if you can escape it. Uh, I don't know if —
Austin: Who is, wait. Who is trying to stop this?
Jack: Uh, this is, uh, somebody named Facer Canceller.
Austin: No, no — great name, Facer Canceller, great name. That's not what I meant. Who on the Cause has, is being tapped to stop this?
Jack: Oh, that's a great point. It's a wayward faction, because I've just been thinking it was Art.
Austin: No. Well, I mean, Art will play —
Jack: Right.
Austin: Will theoretically play the Clem stuff, the, the, the Witch in Glass, the Crown of Glass stuff. But when you choose, you have to choose a Cause — someone who's representing the Cause's efforts during the scene.
Jack: Do I choose, or does the other party choose?
Austin: We choose, as a group.
Jack: Yeah.
Art: You choose.
Austin: Don't we?. Uh, if it's already tapped... yeah. When you choose — no, you're right. When you choose a scene, also choose which faction will be representing the Cause's efforts or interests. So this is Blue Channel, Jade Kill, Carmine Bight. Well...
Jack: Do any of these people have any experience with the water?
Art: [chuckling]
Austin: I suspect one of them does, Jack. From ramshackle additions, uh, to the rocky shores of Rifle Island, Captain Skelton Knaggs and his fearsome flotilla launch rusted pirate vessels beneath the waves guided by a coalition of Hyphan navigators.
Jack: Oh, these are the pirates.
Austin: These are the pirates. Seeking plunder in this naval encounter.
Jack: Jesus Christ, what could be worst than Clementine having an Iconoclast? Answer: The Pirates. [chuckling]
Austin: The pirates. Uh-huh.
Art: [chuckles]
Jack: Okay. But the voice over the phone —
Art: So you're chasing the, you're chasing the boat —
Jack: I am chasing —
Art: And the pirates are opposing your chasing.
Jack: Yes. This is a classic 3-way naval chase.
Art: Okay.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Art: [laughing]
Jack: But the, the, the head of this operation from the Bilats is uh, a man named Facer Canceller. Uh, he is the Stargrave's hunter, the person —
Austin: Facer? FACER.
Jack: Facer Canceller.
Austin: Canceller like, the person who cancels a thing.
Jack: Yes. Facer Canceller is the name of the —
Austin: Two Ls.
Jack: Yep. Uh, of the machine that the USPS uses to check if stamps are valid. That machine is called a facer canceller. [chuckling] Which is —
Austin: That's incredible.
Jack: Fucking incredible. Uh, but here, the Facer Canceller, or, yeah, the Facer Canceller, or Facer Canceller, is a Hunter, is a trained, sort of —
Austin: Like from Hunter x Hunter?
Jack: Like from — I don't know, maybe! You tell me. Don't tell me, I can't do that.
Austin: If you'd like to hear Jack, think, think, and learn about Hunter x Hunter [chuckling] you just need to support us at friendsatthetable.cash. We're very close to the Hunter x Hunter podcast goal. If this is the first you're hearing about it, you should go to be friendsatthetable.cash, where there is a, uh, or to YouTube.com/friendsatthetable, where you can see Jack see 4 different, 3 different images? 4 different images, from Hunter x Hunter, uh, and learn about the anime for the first time. And, uh, kind of a prequel to what will come if we hit our goal. Anyway, the Facer Canceller is a hunter.
Jack: Yes. They're offscreen now, because they're talking into a walkie-talkie, uh, on their ship, somewhere, trying to lead people into a trap, but you need to know that he looks like Daniel Craig.
Austin: Ah, yeah, okay, great. Yeah.
Jack: Mm-hm. uh... yeah. Uh, I'm, I'm making the roll. I lead you into a trap. Roll to see if you can escape it. Uh...
Art: All right, so I'm making —
Jack: No.
Austin: That feels like a you —
Jack: Oh, well, it could be — yeah.
Austin: It doesn't matter. It —
Art: And I am both the —
Austin: Correct.
Art: The, the, uh, Crown of Glass people and the pirate.
Austin: It seems like it.
Jack: Unless you want to be the pirates, Austin.
Austin: I'm good with you — I'm, you know what? Put me where you need me. Uh, I want to, I just —
Art: Why don't we see how it goes.
Austin: I'm going to be the person who —
Art: Jump in if you feel like you should jump in.
Austin: Yes. For now I'll be the person that says, “What's that look like?”
Jack: Yeah, sounds good. [laughing] Classical role.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: All right. 2.
Austin: That is a fail, right?
Art: Uh, that is a fail —
Austin: We need a 5 or a 6.
Art: It's a success for the, it's a success for the, for the Authority.
Austin: For the Authority, correct.
Jack: It is a success for the Authority.
Austin: Yes.
Jack: Uh, there's some sort of a disagreement on your boat, that leads to... you falling into the trap, right?
Art: Well I think, I think the way this has to go is the like, “We're not going over there.” And that was the trap.
Jack: [chuckling]
Art: The like, us avoiding this thing we thought was the trap, was the trap.
Austin: Mmm.
Art: And now you're like, upon us, in a dramatic way.
Jack: Yes, lights flash in the water on either side of the boat, and it seems like there are these, there's this network of buoys, almost, just under the surface of the water. Uh, uh, and these are, uh, almost like, uh, like threads of a spider's web, uh, that can move and can constrict your path. Uh, and in the distance, you hear the, the, the sound of the, sort of the jet engine of Facer Canceller's ship. Which needs a cool name, but we don't need, necessarily. I think that they're not necessarily an ocean-going person, but they have been dispatched out to the ocean, so they've taken a boat, uh, as it comes towards you, and, you know, fires — if they were any closer there would be actual shots across the bow, but as it stands, just go wide and splash out into the water.
0:34:11
Austin: I'm re — just so y'all can see this and know what I'm doing, I'm renaming our Cause and Success — sorry, our Success and Failure tracker to be Cause and Authority —
Jack: Oh, very good.
Austin: It'll be just cleaner for us.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. All right, so, sorry. Can you repeat what you just said, Jack?
Jack: Uh, yeah. Facer Canceller has sent out, uh, the sort of like thin buoys that work almost like spider webs —
Austin: Cool.
Jack: That float just under the water, tracking the position of the boat and kind of harrying them into other positions, as the jet-engine-powered vessel, piloted by Facer Canceller, kind of — it's, uh, like a hydrofoil. It's lifting itself up out of the water on a rudder.
Austin: Ooh, fun.
Jack: And it is firing, what, uh, you know, would be damaging shots, but at this distance are going over the bow.
Austin: Mmm.
Art: Sure. I think that, like, you know, the buoys are a problem, because these are boats that — fast boats are high in the water boats.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: So that kind of thing would be very disruptive. But we have, we have great technology. And we are able to leave the water for a brief period of time.
Jack: Huh.
Art: And then the buoys do not constrict us, which is to say, I find a sudden burst of speed in me. Roll to see if you can match me.
Austin: Ooh.
Jack: Mmm.
Austin: Here, you're looking for a 1 through 4, Jack.
Jack: Mm-hm. Ooh.
Austin: And that is a 5, so you do not —
Jack: That is a 5.
Austin: That is a, a Cause win, here.
Art: And I think what happens here is, is I think you could have matched this. But I think you hit a mine.
Austin: [laughing]
Jack: Oh, ho ho ho.
Art: Because you're being opposed with bold action, unpredictable tactics.
Austin: Ah, uh-huh.
Art: And this mine goes out, and then there's a pirate ship right —
Austin: [laughing]
Jack: [laughing]
Art: This like, this rusty boat that you, that looks like it couldn't go any speed —
Austin: [chuckles]
Art: Is suddenly like, right on you. They're throwing like, they're trying to get hooks into the side, they're trying to like —
Austin: [laughing]
Art: You know, people are jumping, they're like falling into the water, but like, they're going to, they're going to try to get on that boat, and you don't even know if they know who you're chasing, but like, they want what you have.
Jack: Yeah. Incredible. Uh, I think that this boat appears so quickly because up until now, it was underwater.
Art: Sure.
Jack: Uh, and I think it has, it has, it has, you know, lifted itself out of the water, pulled itself up to the surface, uh, and, and mounted the attack. This is not good. I'm spending a lot of effort fighting [chuckling] these pirates.
Austin: [chuckles] Honestly, perfect.
Jack: God. Uh...
Austin: Uh, let me, I can hop in here for a second, now that there's, now that we have all three players in. Uh, this is a... this is a kind of funny version of this. Uh, describe the ship that you're in, Jack.
Jack: Uh, it is a hydrofoil, it's a large, gunmetal gray vessel. Against the pirate ship, it looks very sleek, but probably in drydock. I'm almost imagining like a smaller version of the greatships that Fragile uses in Death Stranding.
Austin: Oh, sure. Uh, how big is it?
Jack: It is the size of a house, of a medium-sized house. So it's not gigantic as far as boats are concerned.
Austin: Okay. But for instance, could an Altar stand atop it?
Jack: Woah, yes.
Art: [laughs]
Austin: Uh... [chuckles] We briefly draw close, and I injure you. You're dodging away from these pirates, uh, uh, from the rusted ships, and then suddenly in front of you there is a burst of the water, uh, as a giant Altar pushes up through the sea and lands atop you, and then stabs down a harpoon into you. And this is Narmine Te’ketch and the Captain from our Lancer game, who has arrived to take what we believes to be his, the treasure of the seas, once again reunited —
Jack: [chuckling]
Austin: In his home, the water. This is a, uh, a Hyphan pirate, a Hyphan pirate who's also a mech pilot.
Austin: Uh, and, and so yes, I have injured you, how do you push me away?
Jack: He's a real —
Austin: How does Facer Canceller deal with this big whaling mech that has now attached itself to you? Let's not talk about the fact that the whaling mech secretly has a Divine inside of it also, that part's not been activated.
Jack: Yeah. Narmine Te’ketch is a real asshole in the best possible way. I love that guy. [chuckles] Uh...
Austin: Uh-huh! Big fan.
Jack: Oh, man. I... Facer Canceller is thrown out of his chair, uh, by the...
Austin: [chuckles]
Jack: By the blow of the sword, uh, and opens a weapons locker and draws out a weapon. This is like a, a, these characters don't operate in this mode, so we don't need to talk about things having bane tags or whatever —
Austin: No, right.
Jack: But this is a weapon that would absolutely have a bane tag on it or something. This is a, a pair of pistols that have, uh, sort of like, null-black energy, crackling around them. When I say null-black energy, I don't mean like, black lightning. I mean like, uh, almost like a migraine visual aura. There is a sense that there is something missing around these, uh, around these pistols. And up in the cockpit of the Captain, uh, what does, uh, what's the effect of Kesh magic in the senses?
Austin: Oh, uh, Kesh is... great question. That's a great question, I should just know off the top of my head. Okay. I know Nideo is smell, I believe Kesh is feel — Kesh is sound. Kesh is, mundane magic, it's like, sound, it's like things being muted, things being, uh, uh, a din in your ears, that style of thing. It's sound.
Jack: Yeah. What does, what does Te’ketch hear as Facer Canceller starts, just as a human, standing on the deck of this ship, firing pistols at the —
Austin: Uh, an old, bent foghorn, deep in the ear canal.
Jack: Oof, god.
Austin: Loud. Like, deafeningly loud.
Jack: God. The, the... rudder, the, the sort of the hull of the hydrofoil of the, the ship strikes rock. And the ship just jerks sideways, knocking Te’ketch and also Facer Canceller, and also all the other crew on this ship over, uh, as the ship, you know, leers to one side. We dash through a dangerous area. Will you take your time, or will you roll to give chase? What has happened is, we have entered into an impossibly detailed dense archipelago of islands. You know, when you think of an archipelago, you think of eyelids of various different sizes. I'm talking islands the size of like, cars, or islands the size of maybe like a football field at the biggest. And there's hundreds of them. And the channels between them are deep enough to get vessels through, but they're very, very narrow. And you have to turn on a dime in order to to be able to make it through this environment.
Austin: This is for the Crown of Glass.
Jack: I think so, but —
Austin: [unintelligible]
Jack: Yes, because I think the helmsman of Facer Canceller's ship is being like, “All right, we are pursuing our target now, let, let —“
Austin: Right.
Jack: “Canceller deal with the, with this Altar.”
Austin: All right. Art?
Art: Uh, I'm sorry, give it to me again?
Jack: The question is, we're chasing each other through an extremely dense, rocky archipelago.
Art: Yes.
Jack: Will you take your time, or will you roll to give chase? Uh, and I am going to roll to give chase to, to catch up with the, the boat more actively.
Austin: Oh, so you're giving chase, actually, so you're rolling then, Jack.
Art: All right, so you're —
Jack: Yes, because, because the question isn't actually —
Austin: Yeah, okay, okay.
Jack: I have been thinking of it as, do you escape from me chasing you, but it's actually —
Austin: Right, right, right, right.
Jack: Do I be like, all right, I'm going to take this opportunity.
Austin: Right, yeah.
Jack: Uh, I am looking for a 1 through 4.
Austin: Uh-huh. Pretty good.
Jack: Ooh hoo hoo.
Austin: Uh, I will raise, briefly, that the... the Witch in Glass, the Crown in Glass as a faction, as a wayward faction, could tap itself to force a failure, as a reminder.
Art: Yeah. Uh… But we have to, how do I get the outcome here?
Austin: I don't know. I think you should get the outcome from succeeded here. I — I think this is a great question. I think we have to see what the resolution looks like.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: Right? I think if the... I think there's probably a way that both the Cause and the Witch in Glass can get their outcome, and that's if you get away and the Cause gets to, you know, bust through Facer Canceller's ship for parts and treasure, right? Uh, there's a version of it where only the Witch in Glass gets the outcome, which is, Witch in Glass gets away, but the Cause loses, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Right?
Jack: Yeah. Clem gets the Iconoclast at the end of this. It's about, it's about how badly it breaks for the other people that are involved.
Austin: Right.
Art: Hm.
Austin: But, sorry, but, Art was asking, how do I, how does Clem come out of this with, the Crown of Glass outcome — reduce a scheme clock one step or increase a beneficial clock one step.
Art: Right. Is it tapping to assist in this, and —
Austin: And then winning.
Jack: Oh, like do you put the card down —
Austin: You've, you've basically anted up at that point.
Art: Right.
Austin: Right. But again, spending it — I'm just going to reread this here. Wayward factions are used in the same way as they are in the — ah. Rules of the Cause in that they have types and outcomes and can be tapped or untapped in play. They differ, however, in that Wayward factions may choose to oppose the Cause instead of the Authority. So it's a choice, they don't have to — tapping themselves to force a failure during a conflict scene, or more broadly, tapping themselves to support the Authority during a sortie. Oh, right. But again, the other version of this is that during a conflict turn, any Cause faction can tap itself to, again, automatically —
Art: Right.
Austin: I believe cause a failure for the — cause a win for the Cause. Uh, one, one, like a successful turn, effectively, you know, in the chase.
Art: Yeah, and I think this is the best time to —
Austin: It seems like it, to me.
Art: Uh, well I mean, you don't know, you don't know what seen I could have dreamed up.
Austin: True.
Art: But, I will tap X in here?
Austin: Yeah, I think that's how it goes. Yeah, you got it.
Art: So you do not have the ability to catch up, and that will be a Cause.
Austin: Is that the 4th one, or is it the 3rd one?
Jack: That is the... oh, that is — now we are even. [chuckles]
Austin: Right.
Jack: Huh. Uh...
Austin: Because, wait, wait, wait, I just want to double-check something so we're clear. You did not tap it to cancel the success that Jack just made, you're tapping it to add a victory.
Art: It like reverses the —
Austin: It doesn't undo the thing that just happened. It, I'm just double-checking this, one second.
Art: No, it — taps themselves to force a failure during a conflict, conflict —
Jack: Oh, wow.
Austin: Oh, so yes, it is that.
Jack: Then in that case, yes. That gives you —
Austin: That gives you the win.
Jack: I'll uncheck that.
Austin: The, the — yeah. And so that is another Cause one, not another.
Art: I guess we can, we can decide among ourselves in the future if we should have to declare this before —
Austin: Before... ah, I like the dynamism of —
Art: The roll.
Austin: “Ah, I'm going to actually cancel that.”
Jack: Yeah, “Actually I want to do it.” Yeah.
Austin: If we were playing a more strategic game, or like, taking it much more seriously in a different way, than maybe, you know. But...
Art: Yeah.
0:46:59
Art: Uh... and I think this just looks like, I don't, what does just, like, a bunch of Perennial shit look like, you know?
Austin: Mm-hm. Mm-hm.
Art: I sort of want like, the James Bond smoke cloud, but it's Perennial, you know?
Austin: God, can I actually pitch something —
Art: Like a chaff grenade, like a hundred chaff grenades went off.
Austin: Can I actually pitch a different thing here? Which is, which actually maybe starts to explain why this result would advance the, unlock the power of the Iconoclast for herself, outcome?
Art: Yeah.
Austin: What if the sarcophagus opens a little bit?
Jack: [laughing] Oh my god.
Austin: And it's Iconoclast —
Art: Oh, we get some mummy magic —
Austin: We get some mummy magic out here. [chuckles]
Jack: This has become, anything that you put in a sarcophagus becomes a mummy. This is the rules of storytelling.
Austin: That's true. Yeah, uh-huh.
Art: Yeah, that's, I think that's Chekhov's, like, sarcophagus.
Austin: Ha-ha, that's right. It's —
Art: Is the name of that rule.
Austin: Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Look it up. It's in there. Uh, in the book of laws, in Chekhov's laws book.
Jack: [laughs] The Seagull, please.
Austin: Yeah, sorry, apologies, apologies. Uh, yeah. Yeah. So, so yeah. What is the wild-ass Iconoclast effect that gets, uh, gets —
Art: God.
Austin: Gets, gets Facer Canceller off your, or Facer Canceller's people —
Jack: Oh my god, I have the — oh,.
Austin: Please. Please.
Art: We're taking pitches here.
Jack: [chuckles] What if Facer Canceller gets given the vision that he succeeded? That he got it?
Austin: Oh my god.
Art: Oh...
Austin: [loud laugh] Oh! Oh...
Jack: Does the, could the Iconoclast do that. It seems in keeping with —
Austin: It's in keeping. That's a dream that they could offer you, right?
Jack: And this is a Hunter.
Art: That you're just on the — that you caught the boat? You're on it? You're unloading the thing?
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: Meanwhile, all around you, your fleet is being picked apart by Carmine Bight.
Jack: Oh my god.
Austin: Facer Canceller wakes up hours later on one of these small islands of the archipelago, you know?
Jack: Yeah. Yeah!
Art: Hostage of the pirates.
Austin: Hostage of the pirates. Ugh.
Jack: [chuckling] Hostage of the — they've caught the Hunter? They've caught the Stargrave's — you know, like.
Austin: [chuckling]
Jack: Like —
Art: Yeah, we went a little weird on the chase mechanics here, but —
Austin: [laughing]
Art: I like where we got. [chuckles]
Jack: Look, I think we followed the rules to a T.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: Ending with the capture of this person.
Austin: Right, wait, wait, wait. What are the things, what are the...
Jack: Oh my god.
Austin: Uh, we walk into a dead end, can the Hunted still escape? An escape is in sight, can the Hunter catch up in time? A third party intervenes, whose side are they on?
Jack: [chuckles] Whose side are they on?
Austin: It was that, it was that one.
Jack: The third party is the Usher of Truth —
Art: It's that one.
Jack: And the side that they're on is objectivity.
Austin: [chuckles] We thought the third party was going to be Carmine Bight. In fact... it was the Iconoclast, [chuckling] the Usher of Truth.
Jack: God, Life of Pi remake, except instead of it being a boy and a tiger.
Austin: [laughs]
Jack: It's Facer Canceller and an Iconoclast in a boat.
Austin: In a boat, yeah. Uh-huh.
Art: Also, Brendan Fraser The Mummy remake —
Austin: Yes, but it's an Iconoclast.
Art: But it's an Iconoclast.
Austin: Yeah, sure. Uh-huh. All right. So, uh, we have now succeeded at that, that that, we have resolved that. Uh...
Jack: Uh, so, but this is a win for the pirates. What do the pirates get when they succeed?
Austin: Well... [chuckling] when the pirates succeed, they have to flip a die, or flip a coin, I believe.
Jack: Ooh, deliver a cut of loot to the carrier!
Austin: Uh... uh-huh. Someone roll a 1D2. If it's a 1, it's a heads, which means it's a valuable. If it's 2, it's a tails, which means it's treasure.
Jack: Art, you've got to do this. You were —
Art: Wait, hold on. Uh... oh, never mind. I was making sure we did not screw up what happens with a tie.
Austin: Oh, wait, what happens with — oh, no, no, no, yeah. Here the tie —
Art: Tie we decide, and we're doing —
Austin: Uh-huh. Wait, where is the tie at?
Art: Uh... uh, at the end of, on page 91, top — in the event of a tie, interpret the outcome as a group. If you're unsure, flip a coin.
Austin: But what were we — but where was the tie?
Art: We have interpreted the outcome as a group.
Austin: Where was, there was no — there ended up not being a tie, because of the way the tapping works.
Art: Oh, because, because it was a check, okay.
Austin: Yes, correct, correct, correct. We're good.
Art: Got it. Uh, we roll a D2, we call one —
Austin: 1 is heads.
Jack: Treasure!
Austin: 2 is tails.
Art: That's tails, treasure.
Austin: Treasure. Highly valuable —
Jack: What's the difference between valuable —
Austin: Treasure is highly valuable. Treasure is highly valuable, around a gold, glittering target on your back. Increase value by 4.
Jack: Is it Facer Canceller?
Austin: Uh...
Art: [chuckles]
Austin: I — it might, it might be. Uh, I'll read more here. Valuable and treasure are a pair of tags that make equipment more expensive to acquire. They're minus 1 and minus 2 cost tags, respectively. Since this increase in difficulty should be represented as balancing factor when it comes to tag costs. On equipment, you don't pay for — for instance, equipment you or your Altar, et cetera, starts with, these tags can look like a free way of balancing out positive tags. They are not. People [chuckling] like having expensive things, and many people will go to great lengths to acquire them without paying. If your characters are carrying around valuable or treasured equipment, often look for opportunities to redistribute their wealth. Additionally — [chuckling] if the players are looking to buy something expensive, hoarding valuable and treasure tagged items are effectively the best way to do it. So when they do so, remind them that they're filling their carrier with chests of gold whilst people go hungry. Then later on, explaining how to, how to do treasure stuff.
Austin: I think that's, that might actually, oh, yes. During the somewhere nearby move, where people go to get equipment during downtime, they can trade objects with the valuable or treasure tags as, effectively if they'd rolled a 2 or a 4.
Jack: Mmm.
Austin: So it's like, they get something they can trade for money [chuckling] or as valuable to get something in, in, back. I bet it's not Facer Cancel — I bet they're not going to, sorry. Uh, I think Carmine Bight got a bunch of treasure here. What they're going to do is to show up to the carrier —
Jack: Oh, to, yeah.
Austin: With one piece of treasure. So we should decide, between now and downtime, what that is, so I can surprise them with it. If you want it to be this person, that's fine, but I don't know why... can you give me a little bit, Jack, on Skelton Knaggs?
Jack: Skelton Knaggs is a pirate king.
Austin: Okay.
Jack: He is, uh, he is a ringleader, he is a tactician, he is, uh, you know, like, when you picture a historically great pirate lord —
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Uh, with a, with an army of pirates around him —
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: I, I picture him being played by Tim Blake Nelson, the, the great character actor. Uh, and he has a fleet of, uh, 4 other captains who do work sort of underneath him out in the wild. The, the one attacking with Narmine Te’ketch was Captain Iclans Slinger, who is his vanguard, and who has that rusted ship —
Austin: I need you to spell that so I can write it down. Iclans Slinger?
Jack: Iclans, ICLANS, Iclans. Slinger, SLINGER.
Austin: Iclan's with an apostrophe, or no?
Jack: Nope. No. Uh, she's his first mate, and captain of her own ship.
Austin: Gotcha. Cool.
Jack: So Slinger has brought it to Knaggs, and Knaggs is distributing it to the carrier, you know, of like, “All right, boss, here's what we got.”
Austin: Right. Yeah.
Jack: Uh, and I'm so curious —
Austin: And presumably, presumably everybody gets a cut of this, right? This is part of what a pirate crew does for the, for the cause, is, they get a bunch of loot. And, you know, everybody gets a little bit of the cut. The carrier happens to get this one piece of treasure, but this is the sort of thing that could be used by everybody to help get by. Which is important right now, by the way, because of how tapped-out the Cause is. Right now, the only untapped Cause factions are Blue Channel and Jade Kill. And that includes Gray Pond, whose whole thing is untapping other factions.
Jack: Mm-hm.
Austin: Which, is a problem. Which, by the way, there is an opportunity that Gray Pond could have used their outcome last mission, if Blue Channel crew would have gotten that like, bonus objective —
Jack: Right.
Austin: Of securing that one train car. They did not get the equipment from that train car. And so, Gray Pond's outcome did not happen, which means when I start the downtime —
Jack: Cut to, people getting attacked by — tri— tri— what are they called? Triceranors? What are they called?
Austin: Tri— tri—
Jack: Triceradors.
Austin: Wow, we had it.
Jack: Tricerataurs.
Austin: Tricerataurs. Tricerataurs.
Jack: [chuckling] Tricerataurs.
Austin: Yeah, Tricerataurs, of course.
Jack: They'd have been very well-equipped to fight those Tricerataurs if...
Austin: Oh, yeah. And unfortunately, they were not. So... cool. Good scene. Uh... Nideo. And the Divine Crusade.
Art: Wow.
Austin: One more scene.
Art: Following two absolute bangers.
Austin: Oh, wait, sorry, sorry, sorry. Important. Unlock the power of the Iconoclast for herself, Clem, advances by one.
Art: Oh, yeah, got to —
Austin: Boom.
Art: Got to tick, tick that up one.
Austin: [chuckling] To a 4. It's halfway there.
Art: Uh, I'm sure [chuckling] nothing bad will happen.
Jack: [laughing] That to a 4.
Art: How do, uh, Wayward factions become untapped?
Austin: Great question, uh, Art, great question. The same way as regular factions. [chuckling]
Jack: Wait, so they have to get untapped?
Art: They can become untapped as a result of director moves.
Austin: They could, I, yeah. So things could happen in the story that would untap them, you know?
Jack: But also —
Austin: I suspect —
Jack: Brnine —
Austin: The next time — go ahead, yeah.
Jack: Brnine might have to put the Blue Channel to work, to untap [laughing] Clementine.
Austin: Uh-huh! Uh, I actually suspect what will happen is, you have just told me what the Figure in Bismuth's next side objective will be about.
Jack: Ooh, yeah.
Austin: Right? Providing something for the Crown in Glass to untap itself, basically.
Jack: [laughing]
Art: All right.
Jack: Connadine in the tower — no, not even Connadine. It's a whole operation. Connadine's military chief in the tower getting the news, and now it's like, “Okay, we lost Facer Canceller and we lost the Iconoclasts, and we got our fleet picked apart by pirates.” Just head in hands.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: One of those days.
0:57:17 - Scene two
Art: Here's the thing.
Austin: Uh-huh?
Art: I really feel like Nideo needs a win here.
Austin: Well —
Art: They have a point of disfavor.
Austin: Right, true.
Art: And it's hard to get a win —
Austin: It is.
Art: For Nideo.
Austin: You start with a little autowin, from your —
Art: Oh, because I can just start by ticking, take something that isn't theirs.
Austin: Correct. That goes up to, to 2, out of 4.
Art: Or we could start a new —
Austin: You could take a second, exactly. [chuckling] What is Stel Nideo, what's the, what's the win you're looking for?
Art: Uh... well there's two things I'm concerned about here.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: One is this point of disfavor, and trying to just like, do something. But the other thing is sort of like, Gentian's rivals were sort of not defeated on camera, but —
Austin: Mmm, mm-hm.
Art: Didn't win. And is there something I can do to make them look, to make them look strong?
Austin: Right.
Jack: Mmm.
Austin: To the people.        
Art: To the people, yeah.
Austin: Yeah. Are you thinking, what are you thinking, do you have an idea in mind?
Art: Uh... I'm thinking either like a one on one?
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Uh, and it's probably a one on one.
Austin: I think there's, it feels —
Art: Because the other option is all-out war, which is —
Austin: Yeah, I love that those are the two options though, right? The one on one is, two volunteers play locked in conflict with one another. They should decide between them which takes the role of an Authority member and which represents the Cause, what form their duel takes, what its stakes are. It's a duel. And that's like, a classic maneuver, right? You've out-dueled the enemy. You're the, you're the greater swordsman, you're the greater, you know, duelist. You have, uh, uh, all of the prestige and all of the grace, uh, et cetera.
All-out war: everyone plays. Players distribute themselves between the Authority and the Cause, evenly if possible, casting themselves as soldiers, channelers and other members of the division or a faction. The director may freely play characters from both sides when needed to facilitate the scene. Uh, freely roleplay — I'm jumping ahead a little bit. I guess you — I shouldn't do that. Decide together what your battlefield is, what the stakes of this fight are, and how these characters feel about the war and their place in it. Freely roleplay the clashing of forces, Altar against Altar, carrier versus carrier, and so on. During the struggle, anyone may have any for details on the situation and circumstances, and them this is, again, challenges about violence, right?
Art: Right.
Austin: Uh, and that's a different vibe than the one on one duel, for sure.
Art: Right. It's, it's worth noting that the only untapped Cause faction that I believe I can involve in this scene is Jade Kill.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah.
Jack: Mmm.
Art: So there is the chance of having like, a Ramondre v Kalar —
Austin: Yeah. Uh-huh!
Art: One on one. Which, like, that might be too shiny for me to not —
Austin: You gotta do it.
Art: Rad.
Austin: Especially after the bit where Kalar gave everybody, gave the party, gave Phrygian and Brnine the little whistles, the little, you know, carved, hand-carved, instruments, what are they, recorders? Is that what it is? Is that what I said it was? What did I say it was?
Jack: I think they're just whistles. I think that they're like, uh...
Austin: They're just whistles, yeah.
Jack: Like little, I don't think you could make notes on them.
Austin: Right, yeah.
Jack: But give us — when you need help, give us a whistle!
Austin: Yeah, give us a whistle.
Jack: What does he say?
Austin: That's, that was the vibe.
Art: Give us a whistle.
Austin: Yeah. So it has to be this.
Art: Yeah, it might just be like, Ramondre just shows up.
Austin: Can you remind us which one Ramondre is? I know that, I've already —
Art: That's one of the two rivals. The Swordbearers of Gentian, carries half of the the sword. Uh, the other Swordbearer is Igadiah.
Austin: Right. Ignadiah, yeah.
Art: Ignadiah. Uh, uh, who is not present, who is just not —
Austin: Interesting.
Jack: Wow, why?
Art: Uh... uh, I mean there's two things you could assume from here. One is that this is some sort of, like, this is an honor thing. And, you know, as, you know, we've said that they, they are, they call each other rival.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: And so, why would you go and help, in a duel — you should be able to do this, you're my rival. The other thing to think is that he's off somewhere doing something shitty, somewhere else.
Austin: [laughs] Right. This is just what the camera is focused on.
Art: He's blowing up an orphanage somewhere, I don't know.
Austin: Right, uh-huh. [chuckles] Somewhere he is doing all-out war, but for here, for now, it's this. It's, it's, we're focused on this.
Art: Right. Everyone not in this scene is engaged in all-out war, we're just not.
Austin: Right, it's just a, it's a, it's a, those other all-out wars are coming down even constantly.
Jack: [chuckles]
Austin: Right? It's a stalemate elsewhere.
Art: Yeah, it's... he's tying people to train tracks, and —
Jack: Wow. That dude sucks!
Austin: [chuckles] Art, do you want to read one on one?
Art: Yes. Two volunteers play locked in conflict with one another. They should decide between them, which takes the role of an Authority member and which represents the Cause. I think that we're have to pretty clear.
Austin: Uh-huh. [chuckles]
Art: What form their duel takes, and what its stakes are. Decide where the duel takes place, and who is at risk should things get messy. Freely roleplay the duel. During it, anyone may ask anyone else for details of the situation and circumstances. Other players may embody bystanders, the environment, and so on where required. And then there are a list of questions. Uh, where do they, where does Jade Kill hang out?
Austin: Well, now, if you take a look at the map, it had been Joyous Guard, but they have since moved and taken over Carhaix, the northern city —
Art: Oh, that makes a lot of sense.
Austin: Of the Bontive Valley. Uh-huh.
Art: Uh-huh. And I think Ramondre just like, shows up.
Austin: Uh, in mech? Out of mech.
Art: Out of mech.
Austin: Interesting. Half the sword.
Art: With, with half the sword.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: And is sort of like, demanding satisfaction.
Austin: Fuck. At the edge of town.
Art: Yeah. With a cowboy hat on.
Jack: [laughs]
Austin: [chuckles]
Jack: What is, what is the vibe in Carhaix?
Austin: It's an... I don't, I don't know. What is the vibe in Carhaix, right? Carhaix was, uh, I'll read to you from the actual episode notes, because I gave a little color for Carhaix there that I didn't give in the episode itself. The northernmost city in the Bontive Valley, Carhaix is one of the first major settlements founded by the nascent Divine Principality 5,000 years ago. It was created on the site of a battlefield, where they obliterated the straggling remnants of the Advent Group, an organization that had invaded and pillaged the Twilight Mirage. After the Principality left Palisade behind, it became one of the Fabreal Duchy's many centers of power in the northwestern continent. Currently, it's controlled by Stel Nideo and the Divine Crusade. So this is a place where, that has this deep history for the Divine Principality. This is like, one of those places where it's like, this is one of our un, you know, unalloyed goods.
1:04:06
Austin: We, we [chuckling] you know, the unalloyed good where you obliterate someone, right? Uh, where they have obliterated the last remnants of the Advent Group, a major antagonist in Twilight Mirage, happened here. And so like, you have to image there's museums of places like that. I bet this was one of the places that was very happy to see Nideo and Kesh return. Uh, the, the barons of this place, or whoever the baron of this city was, definitely betrayed the old duke in order to, to support the, the new viceroy, and then eventually the Stargrave. So I bet this is like, an occupied place, to some degree. This is not a, you know, for the people, for the delegates who are servants and slaves here, for the people who had some sympathy towards Millennium Break, totally. But Carhaix was a city of the powerful, uh, uh, who are now being held captive, or have been displaced from their positions of power, right?
Jack: Following the —
Austin: Uh, but I don't —
Jack: The assault, by...
Austin: Following the assault by Jade Kill, yeah. Exactly. Uh, so, you know, again, I think if you are a delegate and you're here, you are fucking thrilled. And I don't know what the, the population, uh, split is, so to speak. But I think this is a city that has been, for 5,000 years, part of the Fabreal Duchy, right? So... we did not talk about this place as being like Braunton, where there was an undercurrent of, you know, class struggle already. For instance. So I suspect this is a pretty yuppie place, uh, that, you know, not that yuppieism fits our kind of Arthurian legend very well —
Art: [laughing]
Austin: But insofar as we have various, insofar as, this is not an evenly divided — this is a place where, if, if there are people who, who wish the, uh, that the Fabreal Duchy had been replaced, or if the occupation here could, from Stel Nideo ends, there are people who wish it was Apostolos or Columnar showing up, right? It's people who are Pact sympathetic, not Millennium Break sympathetic. That's my instinct.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: I'd hear otherwise, but that's my instinct. Which, again, is about, is about living by the end of last season's finale, which is, you are not welcomed with open arms. People see you as terrorists, people see you as criminals. You are not to be trusted. You have to earn that in this season. And the Cause ain't earned that yet, you know. We've seen military action be successful. We have not yet seen —
Jack: What does the Cause do? They've derailed a train, they've —
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: They blew up a train.
Austin: They — [laughs] they derailed multiple trains in the first session, they derailed a different train in the second session —
Jack: [laughing] Three for three.
Austin: Uh-huh!
Jack: Up in a sniper's perch, smoking a cigarette, Kalar watches, uh, uh, Perevel? Right? It's Perevel?
Austin: No, Ramondre, Ramondre.
Jack: Ramondre—
Art: Ramondre.
Jack: Uh, approach. Kind of, you know, like; scowls. Uh, this is, Kalar is not really — I mean, Kalar is a trained soldier, but is not really trained to fight someone outside of their mech, you know? In a situation — it's kind of the inverse of situations that you would usually hope for. Kalar's dream situation is, he is on foot, they are in a mech.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: Kalar's a giantkiller. Uh, and so my goal is to force you into your mech. Uh, I lead an unexpected ambush, and roll to see if I catch you by surprise.
Austin: [laughing]
Jack: Uh, I'm going to try and shoot you in the shoulder with a sniper rifle.
Art: Well, hold on, now. I, I didn't, I need an outfit description.
Austin: Yeah, please.
Jack: [chuckling] Oh, I'm sorry, okay.
Art: Which is that Ramondre shows up in like, sort of like, I imagine that there's like, some sort of like, suit you wear into your mech.
Austin: Right, yeah. Mm-hm.
Art: That the, that the two, that the two of them have, especially, that's like, you know, a mech interface helper.
Austin: Yeah, mm-hm. That's what they call it.
Art: And it's this with like —
Austin: The, the MIH, the mech interface helper, the Altar —
Jack: The “mih.”
Austin: The Altar Suit. The Vestments. They're Vestments.
Art: Yeah. Vestments. And some sort of like, pack, because she arrives on foot.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: Uh, and then, as I said, a cowboy hat. That was real.
Jack: Why the cowboy hat? What affect is she going for here?
Art: Oh, when we start fighting, she's going to throw the hat away.
Jack: Oh, I'm going to try and shoot your hat off.
Austin: [chuckling] I just —
Art: Well that's just — there's not — that's not how you — that's just rude.
Austin: [chuckling] Uh, I just wanted to underscore something here, which is, Kalar, and I'm not saying we have to stop this, but responded with a thing from all-out war instead of one on one.
Jack: I'm not here to play games!
Art: I was...
Austin: Did you do that on purpose?
Art: Struggling to find...
Jack: Oh, I did do that on purpose, sorry. I thought I was — here's what happens. I have the book open, and I had —
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Jack: The sheets open. And in my Google chrome, I had one on one like, zoomed in on the screen, and I was reading that. You
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Jack: And in my book, I had all-out war zoomed in. [chuckles]
Austin: So you did not do that on purpose.
Jack: No, but I do think it, something that is interesting here is —
Austin: It's fun.
Jack: Is that, uh, Ramondre is showing being like, “We're, I want satisfaction, we're going to have a duel.”
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: And Kalar is very much like, “I am not interested in playing this game, that is not how you win a war. I'm going to —“
Austin: [chuckles] I, we gotta — I'll allow it. Like...
Jack: [laughing]
Austin: It's fucking cool to me.
Jack: It's so funny that —
Austin: Art, are you good with that?
Art: …Sure.
Austin: Okay. Ding-ding! You're trying to shoot off the hat, is the last thing I —
Jack: No, I'm trying to, I'm trying to — I'm trying to force her into her mech. Uh...
Austin: You're trying to force her to play all-out war, instead of play one on one.
Jack: One on one. Because we established this is — Kalar is not a duelist. I mean, it's a kind of dueling, but it's a, it's a dueling about scale and violence, rather than like, you know, we're showing up. But —
Art: Sure. But you're being challenged to a duel and you're refusing.
Jack: Yeah, I don't care. [chuckles]
Art: So, you know, Kalar...
Austin: Oh, what? The terrorists don't have any honor?
Jack: Yeah, we're terrorists.
Art: Well...
Austin: That's the nice thing about being declared terrorists and criminals. No more pretenses. Uh, what was that roll?
Art: That's a 6, that's bad.
Austin: Is it? It is. It is bad.
Art: Yeah. Low. Authority wants to roll low.
Austin: Yeah. What's that look like?
Art: Uh... what I want it to look like goes against the thing, right? Uh... because the vestments are bulletproof.
Austin: Right, sure.
Art: That's just —
Austin: Obviously.
Jack: Oh, but there's a —
Art: Uh, but if it damages the vestments, that makes it less likely to go into the mech, which is what you wanted, and I don't want to — the success shouldn't make the thing you want less likely. I will say —
Jack: Ugh, no, we should play into this, though, because the image of Ramondre walking up to Carhaix and saying, “I want a duel,” and just getting shot in the shoulder and just going down, you know, it's, it's bulletproof, but, but she's stumbling, right? Or, maybe she's not stumbling. She is —
Art: Yeah, there's, there's — bulletproof, is usually overplayed in fiction. You know, the force of the bullet still hits you. It just doesn't... penetrate and, and, you know, turn your organs into liquid.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: Uh, so, yeah, I think that's right. It hits in the shoulder or the chest or whatever. And she goes down. Because, like... that thing is moving the speed of sound.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: And it hits you in the chest, and you fall, because it hurts, and it's a lot of force.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Uh... but I think she gets up, dusts off, throws the cowboy hat away.
Austin: Ooh.
Art: And takes the sword and starts doing like, a rehearsed, like, bit of like, I'm going to move the sword in front of me, as a way to discourage further shots. You know, if you shoot, now you're much more likely to hit the sword. Uh... I make a flashy, unnecessary play. Do you let me show off?
Austin: Ugh [chuckling]
Jack: Uh... I, I, I suppose — I suppose the answer is yes, in that I let you keep doing it, but Kalar just calls down from the sniper's nest. Uh, god, what would he say? What's like a, a, a... [laughing] I think he just says:
Jack (as Kalar): Go home!
Austin: [laughing] Ugh...
Art: And I think that's the moment that she needs. Because now she like, definitively knows where you are.
Jack: Ugh.
Art: And she throws the giant sword at the sniper perch, and it almost like, so this is like — I'm sorry I'm saying like so much, uh, to the listener, to y'all, whatever. This is [unintelligible]
Austin: Mmm. Like.
Art: It's a double overhand throw.
Jack: Oh my god.
Art: And the followthrough of that is a front flip, which she lands and keeps running, and makes this, this giant leap to get the sword back. That's like the immediate play. Like, the sword is to destroy the thing. And then she needs to get it back in her hands, because that's what she fights with.
Austin: So she's destroying the sniper's nest. She's destroying the... yeah.
Art: Right, she's trying to to like, knock the perch over.
Austin: Love it. Is this a roll against situation? Or is it just, what happened, what was the —
Art: No, I'm just freely roleplaying the duel.
Austin: Yeah, that's fine. Yeah, that's fine. That's allowed. It says, it says, it says freely roleplay the duel.
Art: I'm just trying to get some cool moments with my people onscreen.
Austin: Yeah. I think, when you do this, the camera shows Ramondre's eyes become like stained glass. This is the effect of Divine magic being channeled through your body —
Art: Mmm, great.
Austin: Giving you the strength. You are the Divine Crusade in this moment, right?
Art: Right, strength and speed and agility that no one could really do. This is all impossible garbage.
Austin: Right, right. But we're anime now, and we explicitly know that people who pilot Altars have this sort of magic flowing through them that they can also channel into — this is part of why Cori has angel wings, is Devotion, right? And so for you —
Art: Right.
Austin: For Ramondre, that's the stained glass effect, from Crusade.
Jack: Oh my god.
Austin: Uh, great. Amazing.
Jack: In mid-air, you are hit by a ball of feathers and energy, as Kalar, who has launched himself from the tower as it falls, has opened his wings and intercepted you. Uh...
Art: Great.
Jack: Uh, in, in the air, we just, we hit each other. I come straight for you, weapons ready. Roll to see if you can hold me back. Uh, you know, the, the, the whizzing sing of Kalar's, you know, like, weapons, the way weapons hover around him as he flies, that we saw back at the end of Partizan —
Austin: Oh, I forgot about that. It's like a gravity belt, right?
Jack: Yeah. Uh, —
Austin: This is high gravity belt, I guess.
Jack: Uh, you know, Kalar, wings open, but surrounded by the weapons that he's going to use. Kalar's decided that this is time for a duel, uh, after offering, [chuckling] shoot you in the shoulder and saying, “Go home.”
Art: But you're still on all-out war.
Jack: But I am still on all-out war.
Austin: Yeah, you're still using [laughing] all-out war.
Jack: I think that would be cheating. And also, we're terrorists, you know? It's, what can you expect?
Austin: Uh-huh, I get it.
Art: Sure. One. So this is a success.
Jack: Oh, no. Wow.
Austin: For you. Yeah, this is a, this is an Authority success.
Jack: What does this look like?
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Uh, okay, so you intercept before she gets back to the sword. And something that I think would be cool is, you do this intercept move — let me make sure I'm reading this question correctly... yeah. Uh, and I, I just want to get as anime as possible, is that, you know, it's a, it's a jump up. You're pushing back. We're in mid-air.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: And Ramondre, uh, brings her legs in like a cannonball, like a cannonball off a diving board, not like a cannonball —
Austin: The legs of a cannonball.
Art: Although I guess they're both the same.
Austin: Yeah. I know what you mean, though.
Art: Yeah. And then there's a kick out, separating the two.
Jack: Mmm.
Austin: Ooh.
Art: And then the eyes are still stained glass, and a moment of like, struggle, of, of like, exertion. And the same stained glass effect goes on her hand.
Austin: Ooh.
Art: Like from the wrist down, becomes this like, glassy, tech-like, refracted thing. And the sword flies into —
Austin: Ugh!
Art: Her hand.
Austin: Ha-ha-ha!
Jack: [chuckles]
Art: And when it closes, it's flesh again.
Austin: Right.
Art: And then adopts like a mid-air guard with the sword, and the two of you, like, come back down to earth in like a puff of smoke around.
Jack: Incredible.
Austin: Now, the thing about Kalar is, Kalar doesn't do magic, right?
Jack: Uh... um, the thing that Kalar doesn't do is fight in mechs.
Austin: Right, okay.
Jack: The, the, the big defining, you know, if we're sort of saying, like, AuDy doesn't connect to networks or anything —
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Kalar doesn't believe that —
Austin: Kalar just doesn't use — right.
Jack: Is, is ideologically opposed to mechs as, uh, in combat.
Austin: So it probably feels worse, uh, you know, was always like a, never use Divines for combat, person. Doubly so, now, when all mechs are called Altars, a sort of nose-thumbing at the Divines themselves from, you know, the name comes from originally from Exanceaster March, who I don't think is a big on Divines person.
Jack: Mm-hm. [chuckles]
Austin: I think Exanceaster March is a big, “Divines are machines that we use,” person, right? Does not have any sort of, you know. Uh, you know, of course, attends services. Of course. Great work that Gur Sevraq is doing, you know.
Art: [chuckling]
Austin: Holds the Bible upside down type hours, you know what I mean?
Jack: [chuckles]
Austin: But the, the, — all of the Altars now, if they're not literally infused with Divine power, even if they're not that, are infused with Kalmeria, itself a strange combination of Perennial Wave, Motion's power, the remnants of the so-called True Divine, Autonomy Itself, and, uh, the, the verb that was Asepsis chewing all of that together and spitting it out into the galaxy, where it would be turned into a strange melange we now call Kalmeria. So, yeah, I could imagine that Kalar wouldn't like that so much. So...
Jack: No. No.
Austin: Great.
Jack: Not tremendously.
Art: I have an idea of what the third roll should be.
Jack: I would love to hear it.
Art: But I don't want to like, rush this scene to its conclusion.
Austin: No, please. Please.
1:20:13
Art: Or I guess we can have more than three rolls. But I, I, I think I know how I want this to end.
Austin: Oh, I have a question for you then, maybe, before we get there. How's this, then?
Art: Sure.
Austin: Uh...
Art: I mean, I'm not ready for it to end, I'm just saying, I've figured out the ending.
Austin: Your allies appear. Do you allow them to intervene? Ignadiah does show up.
Art: No.
Austin: Uh, there's the like, there is, we — when they showed up last time, they were in that pair of mechs arriving, things that could become cloth, effectively, right? Uh, uh, that kind of shift between cloth and the stained glass mode. These were, of course, as we all know, from my notes that are definitely open already, I believe these were —
Jack: [chuckling]
Austin: Billhooks, I believe is what they were called. I believe that's true, yes.
Art: Yeah, I think that's right.
Austin: Uh, uh, and the pair of them are in the air again, you know, silhouetted by the moon as — or I guess I don't know what time of day it is. Silhouetted in, they're just in the sky. I don't know if it's day or nighttime. We didn't really, did we set that up?
Jack: Uh, I, uh, I don't think we set what time it was?
Austin: We didn't really set what time it was.
Art: No, I mean, but I — showing up in a cowboy, it's gotta be high noon.
Austin: High noon. Okay. So, yeah. So then, silhouetted in the sun [chuckling] are both, both Ignadiah's Billhook, and in its — Ignadiah's Billhook in the stained glass mode, but wearing the cloth Billhook like a shawl, bringing it to you.
Jack: Ho-ho-ho.
Art: Ugh.
Austin: And calls, and like, via comms, calls to you, to say... uh, uh, I think the way that, I guess I didn't really play Ignadiah much before, but I think that there's a sort of like, uh —
Austin (as Ignadiah): If you're going to fight, don't do it naked. I'm coming.
Art: Uh, she waves him away, turns to Kalar, and says —
Art (as Ramondre): If you want to kill a giant, kill me as I stand before you.
Jack: [laughing]
Austin: [chuckling]
Jack: [laughing] Oh, these fucking bastards. Uh...
Art: And like, does some big thing, you know.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Hits the ground with the sword and like, and there's a crack in the earth, you know. Some... big show of force like that, you know. Ramondre doesn't need the mech. Ramondre is the Divine Crusade's power made flesh.
Jack: Uh, I think, you know, Kalar takes cover. I think, I think in this moment —
Austin: [laughing]
Jack: You know, Kalar breaks, uh, and is like, I need a moment to like, like, you know, get myself together here. Uh, I think that he is delighted by the, uh, refusal of the help from the other person. I think that this is a, this is a crack in the armor that —
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: That Kalar is like, “Oh, nice.” But I think that once, you know, we get that inset shot of him crouched down behind a table or a barrier or something, catching his breath, and then reloading his weapon. I think he's got like a, like a long gun or something that he, you know, stands up and holds to his shoulder, starts walking forward towards Ramondre, firing. I come straight for you, weapons ready. Roll to see if you can hold me back.
Austin: All right.
Art: This is the second, this is the second time we've had this question?
Jack: It is the second time.
Art: Or, no, it was —
Jack: Yeah, yeah. But we're, we're fighting each other.
Austin: Yeah. That's fine.
Art: Sure.
Austin: So you're looking for a 1 or a 2, or — a 1 or a 2, right?
Art: Yeah, it's very challenging here.
Austin: Jesus.
Art: Uh... which is why I was going to pitch the last roll.
Austin: Mm-hm. Well, we can keep going. We can go until it makes sense.
Art: Sure.
Austin: And we'll see what this outcome is. That's a 6.
Art: It's a 6-1-6. I'm rolling area codes over here.
Austin: [chuckles] So it's a Cause win.
Art: Uh, well, no, no, I'm going to have one more roll, so —
Austin: Sorry, it's a Cause, it's a Cause success on that roll, is what I meant to say.
Art: Right, yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Art: Uh, so this time, it doesn't go as well. Maybe it's the distraction of Ignadiah, maybe it's, maybe it's Kalar is just doing better this time. But this is, you know, trying to block the bullets just doesn't pay off. Shots get through. It starts to be that there are sparks coming from the suit now. Things just don't seem to be going great. And Ramondre responds with just an all-out flurry of, of blows. And it's, it's the ground, it's, you know, doing one of those Megaman X style, slashing the sword, but it makes a wave, you know?
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Art: All of these destructive blows, and this is an attack that threatens innocents. Will you roll to ensure their safety?
Austin: Mmm.
Jack: Ooh...
Austin: [chuckles]
Jack: This is water goose dance. What's the name of that Malenia move? It is water goose dance, right?
Austin: It's not — Waterfowl Dance.
Jack: Waterfowl Dance. Water goose — [chuckling] you know, the famous water goose —
Austin: Water goose [laughing]
Jack: [laughing]
Austin: Ah, extremely good.
Jack: Uh, of course I will. This is why we're here, you know? Uh, and I think, Kalar has the presence of mind to make that decision. His whole deal is being put under massive amounts of stress, and, I don't know, we built Kalar for a play book, and when you build a character for a play book, that play book is always going to be in your head, you know, even as they move outside of that mechanical frame, or whatever. So when I think of Kalar, I think of trying to build that stress count up, and then being like, “Okay, now I can think clearly and think decisively about what move I'm going to make.” Uh, I am going to try and disengage to try and get these civilians into a place of safety. And I'm going to roll, right?
Art: Yeah, then we'll —
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: We'll see how the resolution goes.
Jack: Ooh, okay. That's good. For me. That's a 5. Uh, what is — what civilians are in danger, and how?
Austin: That's an interesting question.
Art: Uh, I think this is doing environmental damage. The earth is shaking, and so it's like, the danger of an earthquake. It's, it's — the force is kicking up dust storms.
Jack: Mmm, mm-hm.
Art: You know, this is, this is making the environment hostile.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. Sheltering people with his wings, you know, ushering people quickly, covering fire to help someone move.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: That kind of stuff.
Austin: The, uh, telling other people who have now arrived from Millennium Break and from the Cause to, to, you know, do XYZ. Uh... and get —
Jack: Yeah, hold her off while I do this, or, you know, vice versa.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. And we can at this point, again, color a lot of this with the Crusade stuff, right? Like, those, those, like, energy waves coming from the sword are hitting things and they're turning into, into the, the glass and shattering, right? The, the entire place is being marked, uh, with like, the symbols of Crusade, left behind, you know, as, as the weapon slashes against the walls. All sorts of, just true, total devastation from a single person. You know, this is, uh, uh, there's a class that's not being played in this game called scout, that is, frankly if, if Kalar ever did get off the bench and come in, uh, I think it would be like this. Uh, this is my suspicion, anyway. Not that Kalar's on the bench. Kalar is actually very clearly not on the bench, Kalar is fighting as we speak. That was very rude of me —
Jack: [chuckling] Kalar is fighting Ramondre.
Austin: But, scout has 2 sub classes, sort of. You're either a field scout, uh, or a giant slayer. And if you're a giant slayer. You are considered tier 3 rather than tier 1.
Jack: [laughing]
Austin: And you can use, like, Altar scale stuff, even though — they'll give you a little difficulty. They'll give you some difficulty. Your custom weapon is tier 3. Like, it's that shit, you know? So, so yes. That is the scale of combat we're talking about here from Ramondre.
Jack: Yeah. Nightmarish.
Austin: And I also just want to say, Ignadiah, arm, you know, the classic, the character from G Gundam Master Asia pose, arms crossed in the mech floating in the sky, you know, feet pointed downwards in a sort of like, judgmental, uh, — I think, I think Ignadiah is just so disappointed that you would lose your cool like this, Ramondre, you know? There's a way of — there's a way of doing this. And like, arms crossed, you know, shawl blowing in the wind. Slowly lowering from the sky. Not in any — you've been — you waved him off, so he's not here to intercede, he's just here to watch and judge. But, it sounds like you get people to safety, Kalar.
Jack: Yeah, I think so.
Art: And I'm sort of assuming the resolution is, I drive you back to the point that you can flee. Do you run or stand? And that's Kalar talking to —
Austin: Talking to Ramondre.
Art: Right.
Austin: I see, right. Right.
Art: But we can talk about any other —
Austin: I mean, that seems — [chuckling] Oh, you don't think it's — your skills are undeniable, [chuckling] can I convince you to join me? [laughs]
Art: I don't think anyone's switching sides.
Austin: No.
Art: And I'm not willing to do the second one there.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Jack: It's interesting —
Art: I mean, I guess if Kalar wanted to, [laughing] we could talk about it.
Jack: Ugh, no. Uh... oh my god. [laughs] Uh...
Austin: I mean, that's something fun, but I don't think that's where Kalar's head is at, right? Or maybe it is. I don't know. You want to read what that second one is, Art?
Jack: It says, we are — oh, yeah, go ahead Art.
Austin: Or Jack, it doesn't matter.
Art: Yeah, go for it.
Jack: It says, we are evenly matched. Will you risk something to strike me down? Which is interesting, uh, but I, I don't think at this point, uh, what I do think is interesting about Kalar driving you back to the point you can flee, do you run or stand is, you went into this... less as Art and more as the, the Divine Crusade, being like, “We need to get a win here.”
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: “And a way to get a win is to send out our most charming, flighty, you know, sword fighter for a duel.”
Austin: Ugh.
Jack: And instead, uh, they were met by the angriest bird alive. Uh, and it didn't go —
Austin: In front of an audience that would have been rooting for Ramondre, based on what we said about Carhaix.
Jack: Right.
Austin: So like —
Jack: Although, this is post the occupation of the city by Jade Kill. So —
Austin: Yeah, but those people who are like, still in their homes, unless Jade Kill rounded —
Jack: Yes, that's true.
Austin: Up —
Jack: Has just driven everybody [wheezes]
Austin: Right, yeah.
Jack: Which I don't think —
Austin: I don't know. You — I mean, what is Jade Kill's occupation like? Who is watching this, who is watching Ramondre fail here? Because it sounded like.
Art: Well, hold on now.
Austin: Oh, okay.
Art: I think we've set this up sort of so it doesn't necessarily look like it's a fail.
Austin: Mmm.
Art: Like, the mechanics say that Ramondre did not, that the faction did not succeed —
Jack: This is my question, yeah.
Austin: Right.
Art: But I think that like, Ramondre is, is causing all of this destruction, Kalar is disengaging, and then Ramondre's going to leave.
Austin: Right.
Art: So I don't know that this —
Austin: Well, you don't get —
Art: That doesn't necessarily read as a failure to a bystander.
Austin: I would say, what you don't get as your outcome, and you don't get your disfavor removed, though.
Art: Right, I think that's absolutely true.
Austin: Right? Yeah, okay.
Art: But I think it's about, like, getting — like, narratively, this is about getting Ramondre onscreen doing powerful things.
Austin: Right.
Jack: Yeah, totally.
Art: And that we did get.
Jack: Yep.
Austin: Yes, absolutely.
Jack: And, you can sell it to your superiors as — well, look what happened. I went down there, and I got into a bust-up with one of those terrorists, and they wouldn't fight me properly. You know —
Austin: Right, right, right.
Jack: On some level, this comes out very well for Ramondre.
Art: Right. Uh, from a, from a propaganda perspective, this is like, I went for a duel, and these terrorists wouldn't —
Austin: Wouldn't duel me. They refused.
Art: Wouldn't duel me.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Art: Took shots at me from a distance —
Austin: I think that that's true, but I want to, I do believe that's true, but I do also just want to underscore that you've, that Ramondre lost, the Divine Crusade did not get what it wanted here. And we need to honor that part, and should not slip away from the conflict resolution being the other way. And the other part of this that's interesting is, Jade Kill isn't going to get anything from this.
Art: Right.
Austin: Because of the way Jade Kill's move goes.
Art: But neither is, neither is the Divine Crusade, like —
Austin: Totally.
Art: What the Divine Crusade wants from this is to advance their 4-step clock, take something that isn't theirs —
Austin: And that didn't happen.
Art: They, that doesn't happen.
Austin: Right, right.
Art: That's the loss.
Austin: But in other words, for me, the camera should be showing all of that, like, “Oh, this is a propagandistic win for us,” is like, no, it wasn't. You didn't win that. If that was the case, we should be ticking a clock — you should be erasing this favor, or you should be ticking a clock. That's how they're selling it internally. That might be the spin. But it isn't that. Otherwise, we would be representing that mechanically, too.
Art: Right.
Austin: You know what I mean? But I do think —
Art: No, I'm not, I — yeah, it's, it's —
Austin: Ramondre can try that spin, you know?
Art: I think it's more of a propaganda of, of — what's —
Austin: Like a —
Art: It's a propaganda tie.
Austin: Yes. Yes. No one got anything from this.
Art: No one got anything from this, no one got hurt.
Austin: And I should say, the reason why Jade Kill doesn't get anything is, Jade Kill's outcome is, fell a pillar with zero grip, or destroy a vulnerable division — flip a coin. On tails, they become a wayward faction. There is a not a pillar with zero grip.
Jack: Nope.
Austin: And there is not a vulnerable division. And so, Jade Kill has been tapped before it could do either of those things, which is very troubling for them, you know? They are tapped after this military expansion by Ramondre, keeping them from being in the prime position to, for instance, if the... if the Bontive Valley grip had gotten all the way down, they could have put in the finishing blow to claim all of it for the Cause. And that is now not going to happen until they can become untapped, which is... you're going to cost something, you know?
1:34:55        
Art: Yeah, and I... and, and the, I'm, I have a, I have a leaving monologue for Ramondre, unless you think this is too cute, in which case we can cut it.
Austin: No, please.
Art: Uh, but, you know, Ramondre sees Kalar struggling to save all those people and says —
Art (as Ramondre): You know, if Gentian were to come, none of your tricks would work on her at all. Pray that you do not suffer her attention.
Austin: [chuckles]
Art: And does like, some sort of like, Power Rangers leap to the mech.
Austin: Right. Uh-huh.
Art: But I'm, I, you know, I'm cribbing Gur Sevraq, and if that's not what you want me to do, I won't do it.
Austin: Please. Please crib — this is the season for cribbing and turning those words against the Cause.
Art: Uh, oh, yeah. “Pray you don't suffer her attention.” And then winks. That's very important. A wink.
Austin: A wink.
Art: And then the, the Power Rangers leap.
Jack: Oh my god.
Austin: Ugh...
Jack: God. I love these weirdos. I hope we get a boss fight with each one of them. [chuckling]
Austin: Uh-huh.
Art: I still need to figure out what cup, what's up with cup guy. I need to, the next downtime —
Austin: We gotta get cup guy on.
Art: Cup guy needs a scene.
Austin: Yeah, let's get cup guy onscreen.
Art: Perevel is they/them, so not cup guy.
Austin: Perevel is — okay, right right right. Cup, yeah.
Art: Cup person.
Austin: Is cup person. Is cup holder, cup bearer.
Art: Cup holder. Cup bearer, Perevel.
Jack: God. Cup bearer so much more dignified than cup person. I'm glad we've figured out the word there. [laughs]
Art: Cup bearer, yeah.
Austin: That's the one. All right.
Art: Cup — Perevel doesn't have a wiki.
Austin: No. And Perevel hasn't really shown up enough quite yet, I bet, so...
Art: Yeah. Gotta figure out, gotta figure what's up with Perevel.
Austin: Okay. Well, that's the end of the conflict outcome. That's the end of the last conflict scene. Are there any final, final words this time?
Art: All right, a 5-star runtime tonight.
Austin: Oh, yeah.
Jack: [chuckles]
Austin: I'm exhausted and starving.
Art: I ate a whole Indian food meal while we were doing this.
Jack: Wow.
Austin: I had 3 munchkins from Dunkin Donuts.
Jack: I had —
Art: That was the, the chase bit where I was lost was, I was eating butter chicken.
Austin: That sounds great.
Jack: [laughs] I had half a sandwich from the delicatessen.
Austin: That also sounds good.
Jack: I... do I have any messages for the other team? Keep an eye on Clem. [laughs] I'm now increasingly worried about...
Austin: Mm-hm.
Jack: About her.
Art: I... my message is, don't keep an eye on Clem.
Austin: Oh. Oh!
Art: That Clem thing is probably just going to work itself out.
Austin: Yeah, that makes sense.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: Uh, mine is, uh, you should spend some time doing the thing that you can do with downtime that helps to untap factions.
Art: Oh, they should definitely do that.
Austin: This is bad.
Art: I would also like to say this, because the next time around we, if, if we try to tap a tapped faction, we destroy it.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Jack: Or we — do we seize it?
Austin: And if you don't tap it... no, uh, if you tap... I think we destroy it. You only seize the faction if you have —
Jack: Jesus Christ.
Austin: 3 grip.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: Wow. Wow.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: We have such beautiful faction art.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: I mean, here's the thing. We're Friends at the Table. We can make factions all day and night. Don't you worry about our capacity to make factions. We just like the ones we have.
Austin: We do. It's true.
Art: If you don't untap enough factions, I will send Gentian with a fused sword and just wipe out Jade Kill.
Austin: [chuckling] Ugh... it'll happen. It'll be over.
Jack: [laughing] Oh my god.
Art: I didn't want to, I, I'm not sure I ever wanted fused-sword Gentian onscreen, but if they don't untap a faction, I will do it.
Austin: Incredible. Perfect. Great.
Art: I think they need to untap 3 factions.
Austin: They do need to untap —
Art: Or we need to figure out what we're going to do about tapping Blue Channel, but they need to do some untapping or —
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: This game is good.
Art: I will destroy Jade Kill.
Austin: It's very good.
Jack: Because the time that they're going to spend untapping factions sometime that they would need to spend on other critical stuff for the Blue Channel, right?
Austin: Healing Cori.
Jack: Healing.
Austin: For instance. Yeah. Uh-huh. So... yeah. I mean, they have plenty of, of downtime actions, right? Everybody gets a scene, and everybody gets two tokens, and I think somebody even gets an extra token or something. Uh, and you can spend tokens during a command deck or briefing room scene to untap a faction. They have opportunities, they just have to take them.
Jack: [chuckling]
Austin: But it's very expensive, isn't it? It all comes to — oh, it's so juicy. It's so juicy that after the Blue Channel is asked to do some shit without it being explained what it is, it's going to be up to the Blue Channel to heal the factions.
Jack: Look, you...
Austin: Mmm!
Jack: They have come to this planet, saying that they will offer aid, and we are asking them to offer aid. [chuckles] We asked them at the time of the train robbery. That was them offering aid. We're asking them now.
[“Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt plays]