PALISADE 42: A Mechanical Whine Pt. 4
Transcriber: Iris (sacredwhim)
Recap        1
Laboratory        3
Just One Second        13
[31:45]        19
[45:00]        35
Devotion        45
[1:01:45]        52
Cori and Thisbe        61
[1:22:25]        67
[1:37:18]        82
Landing        102
The Blue Channel        115
Closing        136
Recap
Austin: PALISADE is a show about empire, revolution, settler colonialism, politics, religion, war, and the many consequences thereof. For a full list of content warnings, please check the episode description.
[music intro - “Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Did we want to try to find Gur before this pops off?
Austin: No, I think—I thought Keith was saying the opposite.
Keith: So, I don’t wanna—I don’t wanna, like, make any—do anything rash before the symposium.
-
Austin: And you get to the final dressing room where Gur Sevraq is, and there is a presence there that I think is immediately alluring and overwhelming. If Figure could have any future, if you could dream of something for yourself, what would it be?
You walk forward, consumed by this dream. Eclectic, uh… There’s no holding Figure back here. Figure’s walking forward, is opening the door to reveal Gur Sevraq, who turns to face you, glowing bright light, like a saint in a painting. But where the spider-like head should be, there is only the golden orb of Future, the Divine that Gur Sevraq once stole, the Divine that for centuries, for millennia, for tens of thousands of years, has been passed back and forth between those who would follow their dreams.
You immediately know in your final moments that the world is about to change again.
-
Austin: But this other version of what Opposition could be bubbles up inside of you, and it’s seismic. And the Temple of the Threshold begins to shake. People begin fleeing throughout this place. And as the world shakes, Figure and Future stand completely still. It’s as if the world doesn’t shake around them.
-
Austin: They are simply generating all of the power for this facility from a drop of Ebullience moving through this machine.
Janine: I know it’s evil, but also it’s funny and kinda cute.
-
Austin: There is a whine. Like, a mechanical whine in the air.
-
Austin: Asepsis asks you to return to the ship.
-
Austin: It is a large, dark room, which is strange—like, the lights aren’t on in here. But it is probably around the same scale as that first and second floor mini-generator hamster wheel Rube Goldberg machine.
[music intro - “Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt ends]
Laboratory
[2:55]
Austin: It is a big laboratory with the lights off. The door shuts behind you, and as the door shuts, some lights automatically begin to power on.
And there is—there are, like, mini labs in this one big laboratory. There are—like, it’s all open concept, right? But there’s like, okay, in the back left corner there’s one project, in the back right corner there’s another project, in the middle of it is a huge, almost looks like a—almost looks like a halogen light bulb made of metal. And then—and, like, gigantic, like bigger than you. Halogen’s not the right light bulb. That’s not what I mean. [audible typing] I mean—maybe it is, yeah, okay. Sure. Yeah, you know. Kind of a wide bulb and then flat on the top, is what I’m thinking of, but fully—
Janine: Like a giant CO2 cartridge for a whipped cream maker?
Austin: For a—no. No, no, no. Flatter than that. Bulb-shaped, like a light bulb, but—
Janine: Okay. Okay.
Austin: Yeah, not—that’s what I’m saying, like, not that type of halogen flat, but like the—kind of a bulb—it bulbs out, it opens out, and then—
Janine: [chuckling] Bulbs out.
Austin: It bulbs out, you know, it flares out and is flat.
Janine: Like a floodlight?
Austin: I guess kind of like a floodlight. This doesn’t matter. This is not important.
[Janine chuckles]
Austin: I mean, it’s an important device, but it’s not—what it looks like is not a particularly important thing. And then, just like, a bunch of other little labs throughout this place. One of them has reinforced glass, is like a reinforced glass prison cell, effectively, that has one of the Motion Delegates in it that we’ve talked about, and in that one, there is a spritzer. There’s like a big, like, air spritzer, that every 30 seconds spritzes a liquid into the air in there. There is a—just like, a very traditional-looking desk with a bunch of—like, a big long desk with a bunch of blueprints on it. This is Exanceaster March’s personal laboratory.
Sylvi: Oh, shit, okay.
Janine: You’ve really upgraded, Cori.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Janine: [chuckling] In terms of dads.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: Okay, let’s calm down.
Austin: “Do you know who my dad is? It’s Exanceaster March.”
[Janine laughs]
Sylvi: Oh, god.
Janine: Can you imagine?
Austin: Mhm.
Sylvi: Different type of horrible army brat, you know?
[Janine laughs]
Austin: Mhm. Many strange projects here.
Sylvi (as Cori): We gotta start digging through these, right? Like…
Janine: Is the janitor robot in here with us or did it close the door behind us?
Austin: [cross] No, it left you.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: Left you, yeah.
Janine: Alright, cool.
Austin: Yeah. Is there any particular project that catches your eye? Is there any particular type of thing you’re looking for? Are you Reading the Room or Dispelling Uncertainties? Are you…
Sylvi: Um, would it be worth—because you come in contact with—Ebullience [eb - u - lents] is a—Ebullience [eb - ool - e - ents] is—I don’t know how to say words.
Austin: Yeah, I always say Ebullience [eb - u - lents], but I think it’s Ebullience [eb - ool - e - ents]. It’s not really—you know, people say Ebullience [eb - u - lents] a lot, but not…
Sylvi: But it’s an Axiom, right?
Austin: It is an Axiom, yeah.
Sylvi: Would it be worth looking for any stuff on Axiomatic, like, activity? Things like that? See if they’re studying that?
Austin: There would be definitely be stuff here, yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: For sure, for sure.
Sylvi: Oh, shit. Um…
Austin: Yeah, like, there is a model of the generator thing downstairs that’s built on top of a table here.
Sylvi: Okay.
Austin: This is a big space. This is like, you know, a giant two-floor studio lab, you know?
Sylvi: [chuckles] Can we steal the model and bring it back?
Austin: I think it’s too big.
Sylvi: Oh, okay.
Austin: It is like an architectural model. You know what I mean?
Sylvi: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: It is—it would not fit on a single table I own.
Sylvi: Fair. I just wanted to check.
Austin: Yeah. I appreciate—you can take pictures of it, you can, you know, scan it.
Keith: And this is Austin “Tables” Walker we’re talking about.
Austin: That’s right. I’m—I got a podcast with “table” in the name. You’d think I’d have a big table. No.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: No. Bunch of little tables in here.
Sylvi: Damn.
Ali: Woah.
Austin: New York, you know?
Janine: I could roll a Read the Room.
Austin: Okay.
Sylvi: You’re probably better off doing that than me.
Janine: Yeah, I have a 1, and you have a zero.
Sylvi: I have—yeah.
Janine: That’s why I just checked. Because I’m now very sensitive to, like, Thisbe’s been doing a lot of rolls and Cori has not been doing a lot of rolls.
Sylvi: We’re making sure I’m still involved.
Janine: But in this case—yeah, it’s true.
Austin: Cori just Struck Decisively against a robot by crying. I think that counts.
[Janine chuckles]
Sylvi: That’s the most in-character thing I’ve done, like, this entire season.
[Ali and Janine laugh]
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: Ah… That’s fine.
Austin: Yeah, give me a Read the Room. Which is 2d6 plus your Sense, which is 1. 2d6 plus 1.
Janine: I got an 8.
Austin: Okay. And remember that you do have that extra Hold, so you can—
Janine: Yeah, I’m intending to use that Hold this time.
Austin: Yeah. So, questions.
Janine: Um… Uh, what is being overlooked or obscured here?
Austin: Oh, there’s a lot, right? Two things jump to mind. One is that Motion Delegate that we talked about before, which, as a reminder, those Motion factories could have resurrected Motion by now, but they’re not, they’re moving slower because they are effectively shaving off new Delegates for Motion that seem to be, like, you know, extra special in some way. That one I described as having a weird spritzer in the room, it’s being spritzed with Ebullience over and over again. It’s being, like, Axiom-itized in some way. There are experiments happening to these Motion Delegates to see if we can adjust them in different ways, right? I said “we”, that’s not—I’m not Exanceaster March. Exanceaster March is—
Sylvi: You’re reading the logs they have. [chuckles]
Austin: Right, exactly. Yeah. We, you know—exactly, it is finding the audio log and hitting play as you look at each of the weird installations here, each of the weird lab units.
Janine: Inside of Exanceaster March’s weed-growing closet, yeah. Gotcha.
Austin: That’s right, uh-huh. And each, you know, at the end of this, Exanceaster March is gonna show up, and you’re gonna have a big boss fight, it’s gonna be really annoying, but like, that’s how first-person games go, so they gotta put a boss fight in.
The second thing that is being overlooked here is that big weird lightbulb in the middle is a reproduction model that is unfinished of something called the EDICT System. The EDICT System, Edict, E-D-I-C-T, stands—is a—I almost said anachronism. That’s not true. A initialism for “Electronic Divine Interface and Control Technology”. This was a machine that was used, or the original one was a machine that was used 2500 years ago or something in the middle of one of the pre—one of the wars—it was the war between the then-much smaller Divine Principality, and then the Orion—the kind of successor states of the Orion Conglomerate and the Autonomous Diaspora, the Divine Collaborate, and it was a machine that an Orion scientist built to deactivate Divines, basically. It can disrupt Divine activity.
It was used at the kind of climax of the Divine Clash, which is what that war was called, when Orion betrayed the Divine Collaborate and killed a bunch of Divines, or at least disrupted them badly enough that then they were killed in combat. It doesn’t—you know, it’s not like all of them everywhere. It’s a limited area thing, but it is effectively a kill switch for Divines inside of a given area. So. Important, valuable, definitely a sort of thing that could be used—you know, I talked before about you wouldn’t set up a bomb without having a kill switch on it. This could very well be that kill switch.
Those are the things I think are being [Janine sighs] openly overlooked that are important. Again, like, I did not write down every weird experiment this dude has, but y’all wanna come up with some, they’re here, you know?
[Sylvi snickers]
Janine: Oh, now I’m torn. Um…
Austin: Hey, things in the room are turning on and off.
[Sylvi hums uncertainly]
Austin: It’s like power fluctuation is happening.
Janine: I’m torn between “how does the Delegate feel” [Austin: Uh-huh.] versus where can I find maybe some sort of—I was asking Cori.
[Dre laughs]
Janine: [chuckles] Where can I find X, “X” being like, a larger main shared laboratory?
Sylvi: Oh, shit.
Janine: Like, are there any documents of reference to like building X or whatever? What do you think would be more useful?
Sylvi: That—oh, that’s tough.
Janine: Right?
Sylvi: Because I feel like we’re kind of in the, like… the boss’s office, you know?
Janine: Yeah, it kind of feels like—yeah, wouldn’t the general lab maybe have less useful stuff.
Sylvi: Yeah, I think it might have more stuff that’s currently in development, but like, this is going to have the, like…
Janine: Or…
Sylvi: No, go ahead.
Janine: Maybe… Maybe “how is X at risk or in peril?”
[Sylvi hums]
Janine: Although, no, that’s actually just like an actual, like, what are their Risks and Perils? That’s not as interesting.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: I mean it’s both, right? ’Cause those are literal things. Those are—you’re not—you know, if someone used that on you right now, what they would learn is you’ve been tagged by this system by pretending to be this person, you know?
Janine: Yeah. Which is what I don’t want.
Austin: Uh-huh. Okay.
Janine: That’s why I was like, eh, I don’t know if that’s… Uh… Yeah, maybe… I think the thing that’s maybe truest to Thisbe’s character right now is to interrogate, like, how does that Delegate in there feel? What’s their state?
Austin: Um, what question is that? Is that—
Janine: “How does X really feel?”
Austin: Okay. Um… [exhales] Uh, they have effectively—you get a sense of kind of what this project is, effectively. It is all of the—it is all of the—this is dire. The thing that I’m about to say is kind of dire and fucked up.
Janine: [sarcastic] Wow, really?
Sylvi: [laughs] In Palisade?
Austin: Yeah. The Delegates spent eons being servants. They are, you know, I keep saying this, they are like bits of a Divine, you know, rendered into smaller human scale individuals. They still have those connections, but they don’t have—and they have some of the affinities of the Divine, but they don’t necessarily have the power. And they have been oppressed through social means. We’ve talked about Eclectic, we’ve talked about how, you know, there are like, times that you would traditionally need to go get repair parts, or go in and get, you know, fixed up, and thankfully there is like enough of—you know, the resistance movement here, the Cause, has ways around that. But historically, those things were all completely controlled under lock and key by the Fabreal Duchy, so you were—they were abused in that way. But fundamentally, you were free people.
You know, the thing that was—there was not—you weren’t synthetic robots that just—you weren’t like, you know, a vacuum cleaner who also could carry a tray or make some tea or paint a building. The Delegates were always people. And the thing that the Motion Delegates are being experimented on is “could we make some that weren’t?” And the answer seemed to have been no, until Ebullience was fed into them. And, effectively, what happens is Ebullience goes in there and, like, empties out the mind and leaves a sort of shell that has all of the capacities—or empties out the right parts of the mind, that leaves the right capacities and affinities and abilities, but allows for there to be a reconstructed—more servile, less free—Delegate.
A move from a sort of socially imposed slavery to quite literally you have the phenomenological experience of existing, but none of the freedom. You just let this little bouncy blob of goo, you know, move through your brain a little bit, and next thing you know you are empty-headed and ready for Exanceaster March to, you know, fill your head with orders. Thisbe, your Ebullient clock is 1 of 4, by the way.
Janine: [chuckles nervously] Great. Good. Um… Yeah, that’s not… And that’s like a permanent state, probably.
Austin: So, which is to say, it doesn’t feel much of anything anymore.
Janine: Mhm.
Sylvi: That’s terrifying.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: And you’re left with just a sheen of simple happiness, right? The Ebullience leaves you that way, where you’re like, “Yeah, right away.” Happily.
Janine: And it has to be maintained?
Austin: No.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: I mean, the machine parts do. You gotta—if its arm breaks, you gotta fix that. But no, this is—like, this is the model unit, effectively, right? This is like, March being like, “I bet I can make a—I bet we can do it faster. I bet we could do it with a liquid spritz instead of having to bore a hole into the back of their heads and feed it in manually.” You know?
[Janine and Sylvi groan]
Austin: Mhm. Dude sucks.
Sylvi: Damn. My fake dad’s worse than my real dad!
[Austin laughs]
Janine: I think we all knew he sucked, I just don’t think we knew he was like, Jeffrey Dahmer suck.
Austin: Speaking of your real dad, speaking of Devotion, we have to talk about something about Devotion here.
Sylvi: Oh, okay.
Austin: Not in this room, but generally speaking. I talked to you about—I said all of the things were fluctuating, all of the power levels in this room seemed to be fluctuating.
Just One Second
[17:35]
[music - “Just One Second” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Austin: Things were turning on and off while you were looking at them. Lights began to flicker. Brnine, you can see that throughout the entire facility. Doors are opening and shutting, light bulbs are exploding, half of these Altars that are in this space just shut down. One of them, the—all of the ammunition in its gun just goes off and explodes.
And you see similar things happening all around you. Down in the stadium, the Dais just shuts off, and Jackal Chase is able to score a victory spearing his opponent in the chest. You know, all of the lights in the arena go off too. The jumbotron turns off.
And Eclectic, you see this too, there are synthetic people around you who drop to a knee. Who feel like they’re overwhelmed. You see a camera drone in the sky shutter and fall. You see someone else in a kind of hover vehicle, like, take off at a speed they didn’t intend to. Something is happening with technology all around you. And that thing that was a mechanical whine grows until it is an organic one.
Perennial is sobbing. The Perennial Wave, intermixed with all of the rest, the Motion Particle and the little bits of Autonomy Itself, the things that are Kalmeria, have been overwhelmed in a moment. I said it before, Perennial cannot splinter off again, she can’t run the clock back down, she can’t give it another go. For the first time in thousands of years, in countless cycles, she is alone and has to let go.
I said it to you earlier, Dre, but her wheel is broken in this moment, even though the wheel she wanted to break is not. And so there is a sob throughout the whole of the galaxy. The thing that started as a machine whine was her crying.
The Perennial Wave, which has suffused itself into everything, is hiccuping, it is glitching, it is breaking. It is echoing throughout the galaxy. Everything is skipping a beat for just a few seconds.
The Perennial Wave in some places relents, and allows technology that has been frozen to blink on. Complex machines, things that were too complex to operate under the kind of deafening power of the Perennial Wave, are able to now boot up. Other things, which had their wattage overpowered so that they would operate even with the Perennial Wave’s influence, those are now too strong, and now they kind of go flying forward, like that car. And one of these things is tied to the Cult of Devotion.
I think you can see it from up there, Brnine. One of those little blue blinking lights, one of those things that you saw in the sky on the sensors of the Blue Channel, back, you know, I don’t know, 8 months ago now—what are those? One of them ignites.
No one triggers it—these Mirage bombs that Devotion has been slowly planting throughout the system despite being told not to by the leadership of the Twilight Mirage. No one pulls the trigger. They just go off because of this glitch.
And suddenly, all at once, a bloom of light and color fill the skies, and Palisade is in the Twilight Mirage.
Sylvi: Woah! Holy shit!
Austin: I think across the Bontive Valley, people are looking up and seeing the sky change color, and they’re wondering—you know, they stopped the sun from blowing up, they brought us this land back, did they—could they—could Millennium Break have done this?
In Sinder Karst, the mountains where Grey Pool work, it’s dark, but even here, that Switch mechanical smell is actually instantly replaced with the fragrance of the Mirage—something that I don’t know that we ever really talked about, but for people who have lived here, it’s not normal, it’s new, it’s—there’s something calming but expansive about the air.
In the Crown of Glass in the southeast, that town, which is already haunted by the specters of a broken queen’s ambition, doors begin to open, electronically locked doors begin to open, shields falter, and the Iconoclasts begin to spread, going where they shouldn’t.
In orbit above the planet, Lucia Whitestar’s flagship, Lander One, falters. Her helmsman instantly activates physical re-entry shields and deploys mechanical wings and begins to direct the ship towards a safe-ish landing, but I don’t think Lucia notices this, I think she’s looking at the sky. She didn’t know that something so beautiful could exist, and she wants it for herself.
And people all around the galaxy respond, not to the Twilight Mirage blooming, they’re not there for that, but they are there for the change in the Perennial Wave, the shift in Kalmeria, the way power itself changes.
I think on another world, on another battlefield, two generations of Rookes feel it happening first. A moment before it hits. And they go to ground. K.O. directs her son towards safety moments before communications are stifled.
On a Millennium Break base somewhere, Tes’ili Serikos, the criminal extraordinaire, was so close to finally getting out of all of this revolution bullshit. Tes had spent the last few years shaving a little extra off of early deal made on behalf of Millennium Break. They squirreled away a little golden parachute for themselves. But, fuck. Look at them now. Computers sparking, ships crashing. They’re pitiful. And maybe they could skim even more if they stayed around.
In a palace built into an asteroid in a faux nebula, Cas’alear Rizah, heir apparent of Dahlia’s throne, comes face to face with the true leaders of the Pact. And if not for this sudden stutter of the world itself, and the quick thinking of cas’ bodyguards, the true believer Cor’rina Corrine, Misericorde, and Routine Rennari, none of them would have survived the meeting.
And sitting in comfort, watching on from a distance, secure, Riah Connadine and the Divine, Arbitrage exchange banter and plans. They weren’t ready for this, exactly, but they knew the tower would fall. They knew there would be a moment of weakness.
[music  - “Just One Second” by Jack de Quidt ends]
Austin: We’ve entered a weird time jump. You will not feel it as one. The days are day long for you. But the world outside of the Mirage moves faster. For every hundred minutes, it’s a thousand minutes out there. For every hundred hours, a thousand hours. We’re in weird place now.
Sylvi: Now.
Austin: And in this moment, what’s happened is everything around you is shutting the fuck down, or is skipping, or is breaking. You get a call and then it gets cut off. Hunting can’t contact you, Brnine.
Eclectic, you’re alright. You’re a Delegate. The Perennial Wave doesn’t affect Divines.
Thisbe, you might have died if not for Integrity, which closes around you like a shell. You can feel something pulling at the innards of your wiring and your power banks, and Integrity is there to prevent it from ruining you.
Janine: Is this external or internal?
Austin: It’s internal.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: This is deep within. This is the, you know, part of you—you have been calibrated to exist in a world where one hundred watts is one hundred watts, and suddenly [Janine: Right.] one hundred watts is fluctuating between thirty watts and three thousand watts, you know?
Janine: I’m kind of imagining this like a shielding that appears around, like, all the circuitry and wires and stuff.
Austin: Mhm. Yeah.
Janine: Like a sheath kind of thing.
Austin: Yeah, that’s a really good way of thinking about it.
Janine: Or insulation.
Austin: Yeah, totally. But the stuff in here is fucked, you know? But this is part of why jesset in the middle of the arena is fine. Jesset’s machine is based on Motion, is built with Motion technology, is built with Divine technology, and the Dais is not. Not yet, at least. Has not been blessed by any sort of Divine, and so Jesset runs that machine through, and Brnine, you can see this happening with your own eyes, your scouter explodes off the side of your head, like in Dragon Ball Z.
[Janine laughs] [Ali gasps]
Austin: And—but you see Jesset, like, “Oh, this is a fucking opportunity, I don’t know what happened, but…” Goes from machine to machine and destroys them, these prototypes, these one-of-a-kinds, trying to stop the future of the next tier of Altar from appearing. Everyone is fucking screaming. The machines that still happen to work because they got lucky begin to move—like the Altars in this base, begin to try to make way towards the stadium, but, you know, they are not made from Divine stuff. Not at all, really. They are in fact infused deeply with Kalmeria, which has been—which is more of a problem than a solution in this moment.
[Ali chuckles]
Sylvi: Damn.
Austin: And so they just start going down.
Ali: Wow, wonder who invented that.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Brnine’s got those knock-off particles.
Austin: [laughs] That is the state of things.
Ali: How’s Asepsis?
Austin: Asepsis is fine. Asepsis is a Divine.
Ali: Yeah, okay.
Austin: Which like, we haven’t said this outright, I think, maybe, right? But like, the reason—you know, in the mechanics of Armour Astir, Profane is weak to Divine, Perennial stuff is weak to Divine stuff, Perennial—and going back to the Perennial, the original Perennial Wave, one of the things I said at the time was that the Perennial Wave, you know, destroyed all sorts of technology and overwhelmed it. But not Divine stuff.
Going back to PARTIZAN, the reason that Hollows were more power—or Hallows were more powerful than Hollows was because of not just the fact that they had Divine blessing, but that Divine blessing protected them from the Perennial Wave. Perennial has never been able to raise a hand against a Divine despite being an adversary. Because, again, she comes from a world of Divines. She went back in time to protect Divines, her own Divines, the Divines that she was originally sided with forever ago, not the ones that would turn out to become the Divine Principality, but the ones that were from the Divine Fleet, the ones that were in the Divine Collaborate.
And so, Divine technology in this moment—whatever that means, you know? It is subjective because it is subjective in a strange way, right? We know that Divines are culturally—a cultural concept, they are not a true thing the way an apple is not an orange or something, right? But they are nevertheless—it is her subjective vision. And she can’t but look at even Divines like Motion and say “Yeah, that is a Divine, that is a thing like me. Despite it all, I am more like Motion than I am like Brnine.” Unless there was a Divine Brnine, [Sylvi: Di-Brnine.] in which case, she would be like that too, but.
Sylvi: Fuck, okay.
Austin: Chaos mode. We’ve entered chaos mode.
Sylvi: Let’s go! This is calvinball time.
Keith: Yeah, that was all crazy.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Keith: What do—
Austin: What do you do?
[31:45]
Keith: I guess I drive to where everyone else is. Or walk?
Austin: Or walk? Yeah, I don’t—I don’t—I mean, that’s the thing, right? The—I guess, Brnine, you get a message, finally, from Hunting. Hunting—it’s through Asepsis, and it’s on your regular ass communicator because your scouter blew up. And I guess—wait, do you have an Asepsis drone with you?
Ali: Um, yeah. I usually keep them on me.
Sylvi: You know I got that thang on me.
Austin: Do they ever—uh-huh. [chuckles]
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: I guess one of them, you know, kind of begins literally speaking, which I don’t think we’ve ever heard it do. It’s trying to make noise. Like, it’s trying to talk to you. Talk through—it’s trying to deliver a message from Hunting. What do they sound like? What type of voice do these little guys have?
Ali: I think they’re like, chittery.
Austin: Okay.
Ali: Okay, you know—okay, wait, wait, wait. I know exactly what they sound like. You know the—okay.
[Sylvi chuckles]
Ali: Imagine Yoshi, but like, when you [Sylvi: Uh-huh?] reverse the pitch of a song to make it sound really fucked up.
Austin: You reverse it?
Ali: [laughs] I don’t know anything about music, but—
Austin: [cross] You mean speed it up? Okay.
Ali: No, when you, like—when you—
Austin: Not Alvin and the Chipmunks, we go the other way?
Ali: No, when it’s, like—
Sylvi: [cross] It’s like at a—if you take a—
Ali: “Oh, here’s this pop song in A chord,” or whatever, and it sounds bad.
Austin: Oh, like—I see what you’re saying, okay.
Sylvi: [cross] It’s like playing a—oh, okay, I thought it was like playing a vinyl record at a different speed.
Austin: That’s what—
Keith: A re-harmonization of Yoshi.
Janine: [cross] If you did that to Yoshi, wouldn’t it just be like a silky guy voice?
Austin: [cross] [audible typing] Yoshi in a minor chord.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Okay, wait, wait, wait.
Ali: My immediate thought was what if it was the Yoshi sounds to the lizard videos, but it sounded creepy, so that’s the best that I can explain it.
Dre: Oh, have you not seen slowed-down Yoshi?
Sylvi: Oh, you haven’t heard [imitating Yoshi sound effect at medium register] brrring-hop? From a normal adult man’s voice?
Ali: No.
Dre: Yeah, no, that’s out there.
[Keith and Ali laugh]
Ali: [laughing] No.
Janine: I’m looking up Five Nights at Freddy’s Yoshi because that’s, I think…
Austin: Oh, that’s smart.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: I want to hear—I want to hear the slowed-down Yoshi doing the Smash Brothers jump.
Dre: Hold on, I’m linking it.
Keith: [imitates gaming voice clip of exertion, slower and lower-pitched]
[Sylvi and Keith laugh]
Dre: Yeah, that’s in here. Don’t worry. That’s in here.
Janine: [chuckling] No.
Austin: Yoshi slowed down. [pause] This is just a guy.
Dre: [laughs] Yeah. It’s just a drunk guy.
Austin: “Hee!”
Sylvi: [drawn out] “Ha ha!”
[Keith laughs]
Ali: Okay, it’s not this. [laughing] This is—this is—
Austin: [drawn out, dissonant] “Hee ho! Hee ho!”
Ali: This is Star Wars Rodian. [laughing] That’s not—
Keith: Sorry, this is Asepsis, sorry.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: “Mucha shaka paka.”
[Janine laughs]
Sylvi: This is my voice acting if you talk to me in a PlayStation 1 RPG. I just go “uh-huh.”
[Ali, Dre, and Janine laugh]
Keith: Wait, is this just Charles Martinet?
Austin: Oh, you gotta go to the most replayed. You have to go to the most replayed at 1:07.
Keith: Is this just Charles Martinet?
Sylvi: It might be.
Keith: Sped up?
Sylvi: Okay, wait. Most replayed.
Janine: [chuckles] No…
[Dre laughs]
Austin: This is it, actually. [slow, slurred warbling] “A-wa-wa-wa-wa-wa-wa-wa!”
[Ali laughs]
Austin: [drawn out] “Yo, yo!”
[Dre laughs]
Ali: [laughing] No, I need a better sound than this.
Janine: [chuckling] I hate this.
[Keith and Sylvi laugh]
Austin: This is great.
[Dre laughs]
Keith: Sorry, I couldn’t hear the 1:07 over other people talking, so I had to go back to it.
Sylvi: [laughing] Yeah.
Keith: It was really funny. It’s really funny.
Sylvi: [drawn out] “Woah-woah!”
Austin: [drawn out] “Woah-woah!”
Sylvi: [chuckling] I hate this.
Dre: [laughs] You’re welcome and I’m sorry.
Keith: I have another reason to hate Asepsis.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: How did they get to that? I am so curious how they workshopped that and got where they got.
Sylvi: I had it accidentally playing in both the Discord preview and on Chrome—
[group laughter]
Dre: Oh, no.
Sylvi: Or on Firefox, and I was like, I paused it, who’s still making these noises?
[Janine laughs]
Austin: “Woah-woah!”
Austin: It’s doing that, and it is Hunting, letting you—it’s—
Austin (as Asepsis Drone): [dissonant, drawn out warbling] A message from Hunting!
Janine: Yuck.
Austin: And the message is Hunting coming through—Asepsis opens, one of these little Asepsis dealies opens its mouth, and Hunting says,
Austin (as Asepsis Drone): “Ship’s okay, we had to set it down, but Asepsis protected it?”
Ali (as Brnine): Hello? Hi? Hello?
Austin: And over on the Blue Channel, there is a little Asepsis drone that goes “Message from: Brnine!” And then you go “Hey, hello?”
[Janine and Keith laugh]
Austin (as Asepsis Drone): “Oh, hey, captain.”
Austin: And these are all framed in “Message from…”
Janine: Oh, god.
Austin: Asepsis is literally running a messenger service at this point.
Janine: This is people who use the voice function in the iPhone text thing.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: It’s Bixby.
Dre: Oh, god, yeah.
[Ali laughs]
Keith: People are doing that. It’s wild.
Austin (as Asepsis Drone): “Do you need pick-up?”
Austin: Asks Hunting.
Austin (as Asepsis Drone): “What’s going on?”
Austin: Asks Hunting.
Ali (as Brnine): I have to find the others. Look out for flares.
Austin (as Asepsis Drone): “Got it.”
Ali: Cool, alright. Um… Okay, that’s—I want to create a flare gun.
Austin: Okay. Oh yeah, you can do that. That’s a thing you can do, right?
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: You can make some stuff, jerry-rig it up.
Ali: “When you take random parts or objects and attempt to create something useful out of them…” Yeah, I think that I’m maybe just like, finding shit on the roof. Maybe there’s, like, I’m thinking of Disneyland for some reason, but they do a thing sometimes where like, they have—
Austin: What roofs in Disneyland have you been on?
Ali: [laughs] Well, they like, they have, like, things that spray things on the ceilings of the buildings, [Austin: Mhm.] so when fireworks go off, like, they don’t get fucked up.
Austin: Mhm.
Ali: And I’m just thinking of, like, places around here having similar security measures in terms of like, a weird piece of a sprinkler, or like, a weird piece of a camera that’s on the ledge.
Austin: Sure.
Ali: Or things of that nature. So roll plus Know. On a 10 plus, on a 10 plus—
Austin: Alright, what’s your Know?
Ali: 2d6 plus 1 is what my Know is.
Austin: Alright.
Ali: Um…
Austin: I like that Brnine is really just like, “Yeah, I’m pretty good at everything. I’m like a—I’m okay at everything.”
Ali: [laughs] Yeah, you know? All-rounder.
Austin: Plus 1 across the board, zero at Talk, but plus 1 on everything else.
Ali: All-rounder.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Mhm.
Austin: That’s a 6.
Ali: Oh, that’s a 6.
Austin: That’s a 6. That’s a fucking failure is what that is.
Ali: [laughs] Marking Spotlight.
Sylvi: I have a move where I can Help or Hinder in times of urgent need across—before anyone else can act. Do you want me to use my telepathy help?
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Wait, what is that move?
Keith: Excuse me?
Sylvi: I have Flash.
Austin: Huh?
Sylvi: “You may communicate with other Channelers—” oh, other Channelers. I don’t know if Brnine counts.
Austin: Yeah, Brnine is not a Channeler.
[Dre hums]
Keith: Damn, this could have helped me out last week!
Sylvi: You’re not a Channeler either.
Austin: You’re not a Channeler either.
Keith: I am a Channeler!
Austin: Oh, you are a Channeler.
Keith: Yeah!
Austin: You have Channel.
Sylvi: Oh, wait, yeah.
Keith: I was rolling with Channel!
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Damn, shit, okay. Well, next time—sorry, bud.
Keith: I could have had Gur Sevraq in tow!
Austin: That’s how it goes.
Ali: Well…
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvi: Fuck. I didn’t—
Dre: I could be alive! No, I couldn’t.
Austin: No.
Keith: No, there was no helping that.
Austin: No, unfortunately. Though—
Janine: Keith, can you—doesn’t—
Austin: You do have a 1—you should read this whole move really quick. Sorry, Janine. You should read this whole move out loud.
Sylvi: Me? Yeah, sure.
Austin: Yeah, just to have it.
Sylvi: “You may communicate with other Channelers instantly over great distances of times—in times of urgent need, sending words or even feelings and sensations to Help or Hinder faster than anyone or anything else can act; so quickly, in fact, that you may do it after a roll has been made. Additionally, dead characters may still Help or Hinder you, their spirit able to speak with you from beyond.”
Austin: That’s wild.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: That’s wild.
Austin: That’s wild that Cori would take that. That’s crazy.
Sylvi: I know, crazy.
Janine: Huh.
Keith: We know anyone dead?
[Austin laughs]
Sylvi: Eh, a couple.
[Ali laughs]
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: Also, wait, is Brnine our only non-Channeler?
Austin: At this point, yeah. Because Eclectic took a move that gave him Channel.
Janine: Right.
Keith: Yeah. Phrygian was also not a Channeler.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Janine: Okay.
Sylvi: Oh.
Austin: And weirdly, Brnine—Brnine could be a Channeler, Brnine could take a move that—Brnine historically was a pilot, but in the Kalmeria era, has not been a pilot—
Sylvi: The KalmEra.
Austin: —of Kalmeria mech, which is interesting. Like, doesn’t do magic.
Janine: Yeah. Brnine kind of like, made a cake, and then brought it to the table, and said “Enjoy!” and then left the room.
Austin: Yeah. Mhm. That’s right. That’s exactly right.
Keith: Don’t trust this cake.
Dre: Good for them.
Ali: Again, could have been Steve Jobs or doing this, and decided this.
Dre: Mhm.
Austin: And now you’re in, like, the Steve Jobs HQ. And you—
Keith: You’ve still got that shitty turtleneck, though.
Austin: Damn.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Damn. I’d been thinking about Brnine as wearing the Rock turtleneck with the fanny pack—
Sylvi: With the chain?
Austin: —but you’re right, it’s the Steve Jobs turtleneck.
Keith: It is the Steve Jobs.
Janine: Wow.
Austin: You know?
Sylvi: One’s casual, one’s for work, you know? It’s…
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Sylvi: We don’t need to limit…
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: And then—
Austin: Anyway, you failed this roll.
Ali: I did.
Austin: Which is not good.
Janine: Doesn’t Keith have a thing that helps with that stuff?
Keith: I can give someone Confidence. Did you get a 1?
Sylvi: No.
Austin: No.
Ali: No.
Keith: Okay, so no.
Janine: Oh.
Austin: Rip. But not advantage, you can’t give advantage?
Keith: No, I can only give Confidence.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: I can give advantage.
Keith: Oh, hold on—oh, no. I’m not on me. I’m on Brnine.
Austin: Yeah, Brnine has a move—
Keith: Sorry, I saw the thing real quick that says “give advantage”, but no.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh. Yeah.
Keith: Because I do have a thing that gives me advantage in that same spot, and then I have stuff that gives clues to me, but no.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: My—none of my extra stuff gives advantage.
Austin: Um, Brnine.
Ali: Yeah?
Austin: Something—you’re trying to pull up—you’re trying to collect parts up on this rooftop, and there is the sound of an explosion below you. Something in this building just exploded, and the whole thing is going to collapse.
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: Take the Peril “in a collapsing building”. What’s the—no, take the Risk… [chuckles]
Ali: Unstable?
Austin: I mean, I think that—I actually think that, like, yeah, take the Risk “Unstable”, but you are in a fucking perilous situation.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: You have to get out of here safely somehow, immediately.
Ali: I’m taking the Risk “Perilous”. [laughs]
Austin: Okay, yeah, good.
Sylvi: Really good.
Dre: Ohh.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh. Yeah. Clever.
Sylvi: Meta-gaming. Then taking the Peril “Risky” later on.
Austin: This is your—oh, this is—is this real? Yeah, this is real. You’re Defenseless.
Ali: Oh, I am. I’m not on the Carrier. Let’s go.
Austin: You’re not on the Carrier. So you are Defenseless currently.
Ali: Go me.
Austin: Alright.
Sylvi: Okay.
Ali: Also, Asepsis sounds like the backbeat from Radiohead’s “Backdrifts”. That’s what the voice sounds like.
Dre: Oh.
Austin: That’s better. I can probably do that better than I can do…
Ali: [laughs] If you put an autotune through that synthesizer…
Austin: Oh, that like, the—
Ali: The little chippy noise? Yeah.
Austin: When you say the backbeat, you mean the—oh, in the real—okay. I think I know what you’re talking about.
Ali: Yeah. In the first, like, ten seconds, it’s like a revolving sound, like, fan noise, almost.
Austin: Yeah, you mean—yeah, like the literal synth sound that’s constant in the background of the song, yeah.
Ali: Uh-huh, yeah.
Austin: That’s fun. That’s a great sound.
Ali: Yeah. It took me a minute, sorry.
Austin: No, that’s fine.
Keith: I don’t know that sound. I still got Yoshis.
[Sylvi and Ali laugh]
Austin: [scoffs] Still got Yoshis. Um, yeah. You’re Defenseless. And you have to get out of here somehow immediately. Immediately. This whole building is gonna come down.
Ali: I would love to be a character that had a parachute.
Austin: Yeah, I don’t see that list in here. No, I don’t see any.
Janine: Can you get, like, Jesset to swoop in and get your ass?
Ali: That was part of the idea with the flares.
Austin: Yeah, but you didn’t get those.
Ali: That’s kind of why I was doing that to [Austin: Uh-huh.] signal people, et cetera.
[45:00]
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: But now I am—I’m gonna fall off of a building, I guess. That’d be funny.
Austin: You’re going to fall off of a building. I’m like, laughing, except that we are now one step from Brnine dying.
Ali: Uh-huh. Um… My weird gun won’t help me here.
Keith: Two steps?
Austin: No.
Keith: Doesn’t Brnine have to Bite the Dust first?
Austin: One bad—well yeah, yes, because of Bite the Dust, yeah, but like…
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: Okay, I have a decent Defy, and I have a decent Know.
Austin: Mhm.
Ali: So… Is this a Dispel Uncertainties, like, find a—I don’t know that this is a fire escape type building, but like, you know, the—
Austin: No, it’s definitely not. There’s def—that would be ugly. They would never put a fire escape on a building in this place.
Ali: Am I seeing any yellow paint on the side of the building?
[Sylvi and Dre laugh]
Ali: You know what I mean, like that sort of…
Austin: I think the problem—
Sylvi: Oh my god, Nathan Drake Brnine makes too much sense, actually.
Ali: [laughs] Yeah.
Austin: It makes a lot of sense. I don’t think so, because you’re on the roof. There aren’t walls, really.
Ali: Sure, sure, sure, okay. Um…
Austin: You know, I think that there is—if you’re trying to, like, dodge your way through this, if you’re trying to, like, Nathan Drake your way through this, I think that that is just Defy.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: I think that is a Weather the Storm. You are running through a building as it collapses, you are trying—I think it’s—and I think that it is—I don’t know that it’s—I think you might be rolling at disadvantage to just kind of, you know.
Ali: Oh, but I—okay, but I came through—I walked into the building to get onto the roof. So I can go through the building to get out, right? This is not like a…
Austin: Yeah, but the building is collapsing.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: So I want to make sure that we have that visual in our minds and understand that is very dangerous, you know?
Ali: Okay, yeah. Yes. Okay, yeah.
Austin: But yes, we can do that.
Ali: But less dangerous than the thing I was, where I was like, maybe I can find some footing to crawl down the side of it.
Austin: You know, that—uh-huh, yes. I will give you that. That is worse. That would be way worse to do, for sure.
[Ali and Dre laugh]
Ali: Um… Yeah, maybe I’m doing like a—sorry to talk about Overwatch here, but a sort of like, bizarre-o Symmetra situation with the Asepsis drones where I have, like, one of them in front of me and I’m just like sort of chaotically running through this building.
Austin: Like, following one of these drones as it runs forward. Okay.
Ali: Right. Right, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: I thought you meant the way that Symmetra will like, hold a thing.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: I was like, you’re holding it? Like, what are you doing with it? I understand, I understand.
Ali: No, I imagined her with, like, hover stuff for some reason, and I almost typed “/roll” into Discord.
Keith: What is the roll you just failed?
Ali: Um, my—I failed Jury-Rigger.
Austin: Jury-Rigger.
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: That’s what I thought.
Austin: Which is like, to try to make something.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Be great to use Jury-Rigger now and make yourself a grappling hook or something.
Ali: Well, that’s not…
Keith: Fail two Jury-Riggers in a row.
[someone snickers]
Ali: I will not be doing that.
Austin: 2d6 plus 1 for Defy to try to Nathan Drake your way through this building.
Ali: Um… I—okay, and I’m gonna use my Confidence here? My 1 Confidence that I have left? Does that feel fair?
Austin: That is… “For each of the below drawbacks, da-da-da-da-da…” Yeah. Yeah, I see, that’s why. Because you’re using Asepsis to, like, navigate you through.
Ali: Uh-huh. Yeah.
Austin: I understand. Yes.
Ali: To find structural integrity.
Austin: Right, right, right, right.
Ali: And the Confidence is—
Austin: This is, Asepsis is being like, “This way is still safe. The floor is still solid here.”
Ali: Uh-huh, yeah.
Austin: “The columns underneath this haven’t gone out. This part isn’t about to fall apart.”
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: God, I would love to be smushed to death here.
[Sylvi laughs]
Ali: [laughing] Confidence is plus 1, or 1s turn to 6s?
Dre: Wow.
Austin: 1s turn to 6s.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Well, that’s an 11.
Ali: That’s an 11.
Austin: So you’re fuckin’ good.
[Ali exhales]
Austin: You make your way through this building. Other people—there aren’t a lot of people in here, we’ve talked about this before, but there are the people who are hired to do the job that you were hired to do, you may recall. Move stuff around and do logistics work and maintenance and stuff. And, yeah, you—[chuckles] Ali said “they think that I’m Tom Cruise” in the chat.
[Ali, Sylvi, and Dre laugh]
Sylvi: Brniney with the tool.
Austin: You’re Bobby with the tool. You’re Brnine with that tool.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: And yeah, so you do—you Ethan Hunt your way through the building. I’d rather say Ethan Hunt than Nathan Drake. I really would.
Ali: Please, please. 
Sylvi: Sure.
Dre: Yeah, fair.
Ali: Um… Yeah.
Austin: And yeah, you Ethan Hunt your way through the building and make your way down, you know, slide down a broken, you know, there’s a part of the floor that turns into a ramp that you have to slide down, and you have to make a little jump over some fire, and someone yells, and is like, “Stop right there!” And then, like, the floor falls out from under them, you know?
[Ali laughs]
Austin: And yeah, you make it out into the open—open, you know, air, as the whole building collapses behind you and you get just enough distance to be safe. With an 11, especially.
Ali: That’s crazy. That’s a great roll. [laughs]
Austin: Uh-huh. Shoutouts. You know, this Altar near you, like, begins to move over, but like, can’t even fully walk because of the Perennial Wave stuff. And is like, you know, trying to broadcast out sound, but only every other word comes out. It is bad in here in general. I’m just gonna start deleting some of these—you know what I’m gonna do is I’m gonna spin them upside down if they’re totally broken. Boom.
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: Easy to do that. You know? Easy to spin some tokens upside down real quick.
Janine: Well, good news, Brnine, your fancam is gonna be on the news tonight.
Sylvi: [idly hums a melody] Sorry.
Ali: Yeah. If that hard drive is even safe. My visor is broken.
Sylvi: Oh no…
Ali: And now everyone’s like, “Oh my god, that’s Brnine from the TV.” [laughs]
Austin: ’Cause they see your face, you mean? ’Cause your scouter is broken?
Dre: “Jesus christ, that’s Kalvin Brnine!”
Janine: Oh my god, the thing happened, we’re gonna be called Mirage terrorists or something.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Uh-huh. People are confused, yeah.
Sylvi: I love that we have the sweatiest Clark Kent in the world.
Keith: Well, okay, to be fair, the Devotees are in our organization, so we kinda did…
Austin: [laughing] Yes, that is true.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: That is true. That is true. But they didn’t pull the trigger. It just happened.
Keith: No, but it’s all the same shit.
Austin: Yeah. You’re not wrong. Jesset—
Janine: Yeah, definitely, when you set up a bomb, but then you don’t pull the trigger on it, you don’t detonate it, you’re fine.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: Legally, you’re fine. [laughing] That’s not you. You didn’t do it.
Keith: Legally you’re fine. The responsibility goes to the person who pulled the trigger.
Austin: That’s right.
Keith: Which, in this case, actually, the person who pulled the trigger was either, you know, long view it’s Brnine, short view it’s Figure.
Austin: Wait, why is it Brnine?
Keith: Well, isn’t this all wrapped up with some Kalmeria shit?
Austin: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Sort of, but really it’s just, it’s really just—even without the Kalmeria, you know, the real problem was people started making technology with Perennial Wave in it.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: That’s really the thing that went real bad here, you know. If it was just the, hey, the wattage difference changed or whatever the fuck, [Keith: Yeah.] whatever bullshit, you know, analogy I’m making there, that would have hurt really bad, but once people started then being like, [chuckles] “and my toaster has the Perennial Wave in it” wrapped up in Kalmeria.
Keith: I’m just saying there’s a lot of threads in this that you can tie back to Millennium Break if that’s what you wanted to do.
Austin: If that’s what you wanted to do, right. We’ll see how it gets framed.
Keith: And I don’t think it’s super dishonest to be like, “Don’t the Devotees work for Millennium Break?”
Austin: Right, it’s not that simple, but.
Keith: It’s not that simple, but.
Austin: They do go to the same meetings.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Where they decide things like “we should attack the Lone Marble Group HQ”.
Keith: They’re the non-traitor half of the org that they’re a part of.
Austin: No, wait, who? Who is?
Keith: The Devotees.
Austin: No, they’re the traitor half.
Keith: Oh, they were the traitor half. Yeah, you’re right. No, no, no, I thought it was the—
Austin: Yeah, they’re the more traitor.
Keith: I thought it was the glass people, the future-reader people, that was the traitor half.
Austin: Well, there was a traitor in there, yeah.
Keith: Well, like 26 traitors.
Austin: [chuckling] Okay, yeah, there were 26 traitors in there.
Keith: [laughing] And—
Austin: But it’s a big organization.
Ali: Hm?
Austin: We’re talking about the Dim Liturgy had spies all throughout it. Remember?
Keith: Right, the Dim Liturgy is the traitor half.
Ali: Oh, oh, oh, oh, okay.
Austin: So yes. But those weren’t—they weren’t traitors, they were infiltrators.
Keith: The Devotees just have ulterior motives. That’s different.
Austin: The Devotees are just an evil cult.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: Right, yes.
Ali: They’re—
Austin: Oh my god, Cori, you can feel Devotion. Holy shit.
Sylvi: Oh, fuck.
Austin: We’re in the Twilight Mirage.
Sylvi: Which one is it?
Keith: Wow, bask in his glory.
Austin: There—you can feel that there is—I mean, what is it like? It’s like—I don’t know why this didn’t hit me until just now, like…
Sylvi: Uh-huh.
Devotion
[53:00]
Austin: It is like a signal coming into tune, like you’ve been driving in—on the highway behind mountains, and you’ve gone through the tunnel, and you’ve come through the other side, and the station is clear. Or it’s like playing a game of telephone, you realize you’ve never heard Devotion, you’ve only heard other people tell you that Devotion is speaking to you, or you’ve only heard a recording of Devotion, or you’ve never—you’ve—[chuckles] this is a stupid one. This one’s stupid. I’m gonna say this one out loud first, which is, this is the thought that I had, and I’m recognizing that it’s goofy. You’ve never met Spider-Man before, [Sylvi laughs] you’ve just met one of those Spider-Man impersonators in New York or L.A. or Hollywood.
Sylvi: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we’ve got those here.
Austin: You know what I mean?
Keith: The scary ones?
Austin: Yeah, the scary ones.
Sylvi: I do know what you mean.
Austin: But you know what I mean, right?
Janine: Spider-Man’s helpers.
Austin: Yeah, you’ve only met Spider-Man’s helpers.
[Dre laughs]
Austin: Spider-Man’s little helpers.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: The Spider-gang.
Keith: Mall Santa Spider-Man.
Austin: The Spider-gang. Yeah, the many other Spider—I mean, this is just what is happening in Spider-Man these days, so.
Keith: I—
Austin: Yes, Keith?
Keith: Well, what I want to know is, on a scale of 1 to 10, how happy is Devotion with you?
Sylvi: That’s a great question.
Austin: That’s a great question. I think—well, I think, you know, a lot of people are feeling Devotion in this moment.
Keith: Side question, what’s your Channel?
Sylvi: Oh, it’s 1. It’s plus 1.
Austin: It’s 1.
Sylvi: It’s about as good as yours.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Wow.
Austin: Yeah. Cori, yeah. I think something interesting happens here. Which is, I need you to either—one, I want you to just talk about what it feels like to connect to real Devotion in this moment.
Sylvi: It’s overwhelming, right? Like, it’s…
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: The volume is too loud now.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: I’ve had it—it’s like, you know, going back to your radio analogy, it’s like it’s been coming through quiet, so I’ve turned my speaker system up a lot, and then it’s coming through as loud—like, normal volume, but my shit’s still turned up.
Austin: Yeah. Oh… Yeah.
Sylvi: It’s when you put your headphones on and don’t realize your phone accidentally turned the volume all the way up in your pocket, you know?
Austin: Yeah. We—you—we—[chuckles] we use the eye metaphor a lot with Devotion, [Sylvi: Yeah.] the eye symbol is a key one. And you finally see part of why, in this moment, now, with this part of Devotion, it wants to show you what it sees. And what it sees is not too dissimilar from what we’ve described around the Delegates and Divines being effectively chained and carved away at, except it’s not being carved. It is being siphoned from, it is being, you know, kind of—not just caged in, but shaped, reshaped, until it is forced to give its power into, you know, a sort of like a demiurgic impostor version of it.
Sylvi: Mhm.
Austin: They’ve built a fake Divine that effectively is replacing the original Devotion. There will be a point at which—you feel it now, you can see from Devotion’s perspective a dark place somewhere on one of the—which, by the way, they’re up there. You can see the planets of the Quire System.
Sylvi: In the sky, you mean?
Austin: In the sky.
Sylvi: Okay.
Austin: There are eight other planets and a dark sun that the whole of the Palisade system now rotates around, including Palisade’s own sun, is now rotating around Volition, this dark orb in the sky, and on one of those worlds is a Divine looking up from the shadow. And cannot move, cannot be, and in time, the worship of this false Divine in between the two of you will effectively sap it until it’s dead. And so, you either—you kind of have to make a decision here, I think. Either I need you to break your last tenet: “You are a shield; leave none undefended while you still stand.”
Sylvi: Mhm.
Austin: Or you need to deepen it. And I think for me this is about a decision about how we frame Cori going forward.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Or is about how Cori feels about Devotion, and the Devotees, and just fundamentally, like, are you—we said this the other day, right? But like, this is the last of your three tenets. The other two were about, like, preaching the good word, and about being a sword.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: This one is less abrasive. “You are a shield; leave none undefended while you still stand.” But it did come to you from the Devotees, [Sylvi: Yeah.] and so you’re not sure how it’s much it’s tied to the real Devotion. But I can think—which is to say, I don’t know that you keeping it means being a Devotee necessarily, but it doesn’t—but it’s—it will be ambiguous. It will be messy, you know? I’m not pushing you to cut it, I’m just trying to illustrate that there is, like, a—we’re in a really interesting gray space about what it would mean.
Sylvi: No, no, I get you. I think that a lot of this is like kind of—it’s a confirmation of a lot of the shit that Cori’s been struggling with since that first vision of [Austin: Right.] the original Devotion, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: Where it’s like, I have been given just enough to suspect what is going on, but not, you know, the bold confirmation that this gives me that, yeah, that the Devotion, the original Devotion had been corrupted, and has been, like, being used in this way, like siphoned off to become this different entity.
Austin: Yeah. God, you don’t see it, but you see its shadow.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: You can see the shadow of its wings. It is chained to the ground.
Sylvi: I think it’s—there is like a righteous anger that kind of comes from this, I think, [Austin: Mhm.] where it is like, there—what we have done to this thing that like, has been told to me has been the most important thing my entire life.
Austin: Mhm.
Sylvi: And it turns out that it has been molded by the, like, greed of more powerful people.
Austin: Mhm.
Sylvi: Is enough to make me just be like, this fucking cult. This fucking—fuck the church, is what Cori’s thinking right now, you know?
Austin: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: Where it’s just like—
Janine: Hell yeah, Cori deconstruction arc.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: Yeah, no, but for real. Like, this is the kind of shit that she’s been, like, working towards, I think, [Austin: Mhm.] this past bit where it’s like, they—not content are they with chaining us down, chaining our wings down, they are going to chain down the wings of the god that we are supposed to be worshiping. And that is kind of the last straw, I think. I’m leaning towards breaking the tenet.
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Sylvi: I’m leaning—’cause—
Austin: The alternative is to keep it and say you’re keeping it as like a true Devotee, right?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: And being like, but it’s—I think it’s messy also, that way, too, which is interesting.
Sylvi: I think that’s too messy.
Austin: Okay.
Sylvi: Because the tenets, to me, always come from the Cult of Devotion.
Austin: From the church. From the cult, right, yes. Yes.
Sylvi: And less so from Devotion itself, the one that like, she has spoken to.
Austin: Right. Well, in some ways, this is how they get you.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Right? Which is like, but wait a second, we told you you are a shield, leave none undefended while you still stand. That’s the heart of our church. Like, stay with us. And you’re saying like, no, that’s—you only start there.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: You eventually become “be a sword, kill whoever, da-da-da”. You know?
Sylvi: You are spending more time making sure the swords cut better and not that the shields can take more punishment.
Austin: Yes, yes.
Sylvi: You know?
Austin: Totally, totally. Alright.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: “If your Channel ever reaches zero this way, immediately change playbooks and take an additional advancement.”
[Ali gasps]
Sylvi: Yeah. I got some ideas.
Austin: We’ll have to do—good, I’m glad, ’cause, uh-oh. You have zero Channel now.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Uh-oh.
Austin: Instantly, next to you, Thisbe, Cori’s final two wings turn black.
Sylvi: [laughs] Fuckin’ baller.
Janine: Oh, boy.
Austin: Mhm.
[1:01:45]
Austin: Jesset lands on top of this support mech and, you know, is able to crush it, and it’s fucking gone. There’s a little support mech called a bench, that thing’s done, and is just like, tearing through stuff. And then, something reaches out and pierces the shoulder of Jesset’s—I’m just gonna change this from Jackal Chase to Jesset City.
[Sylvi chuckles]
Austin: In a Jury. Pierces the shoulder of the Jury that Jesset pilots. It is a long, silver extension of Ebullience, who, with this fluctuation, is no longer contained inside of the little spiral building that it was. It is spilling out into the campus. It is bouncing like a ball. It is landing in big fun cartoon splats. It is extending out sharp spikes, destroying Altar after Altar around it. It is, you know, I have said before that this is sort of a fantasy season in places, never more than now when you have a fucking metal slime that has appeared in front of you.
[Dre laughs]
Austin: A kind of chromatic metal creature of joy and violence is loose and is destroying this place. We should all get on the same page here, I think. What do we—what are you doing? I have to get a token for Ebullience.
Janine: So that, like, bulb thing.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Is that, like, temporary, or like, permanent?
Austin: Historically, it was temporary. You don’t know if it would work on Ebullience.
Janine: Right, because Axiom stuff.
Austin: Because Ebullience is an Axiom and not a Divine. Yeah.
Janine: Right.
Austin: Who knows, but?
Janine: Well, I mean, we do have some evidence based on what just happened that it might—the same rules might apply, or similar rules might apply.
Austin: Well, it—it got out is the thing that happened. It wasn’t hit by it, the thing holding it—
Janine: No, no, I—yeah, the contain—yes, the containment thing that it was in was vulnerable, [Austin: Yeah.] but it didn’t shut down.
Austin: Right, right, right.
Janine: It’s doing its thing.
Austin: Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry, I thought you meant evidence the other direction. Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Janine: No.
Austin: I gotcha. Gameicons needs a better slime.
Janine: My pitch is that maybe we should use the bulb-y thing, but…
Sylvi: You know?
Janine: But I’m also worried about making Integrity scared, is the—
Austin: It would hurt Integrity.
Janine: Yeah, yeah, exactly. Like, it would turn Integrity off temporarily, at least.
Austin: Yeah. Mhm, mhm.
Janine: Which concerns me a little, but sometimes you gotta do…
Austin: It would also shut off Jesset’s mech.
Janine: Right.
Austin: And again, I don’t think Eb—I think that your instinct is that it wouldn’t shut off Ebullience. Maybe you could—that would be a rough one to try to retro-fit it to be about Iconoclasts, or not Iconoclasts, Axioms. But like, maybe that’s a direction?
Janine: You’re making it sound like it’s not a direction, so. [chuckles]
Austin: I, you know, it’s dice, right, to some degree?
Janine: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: And it’s fun, interesting pitches. But I… It’s hard for me to imagine it, because it’s just not what it’s built for. You know what I mean?
Janine: Right. I’m open to other plans from folks.
Austin: Yeah. I mean, again, this maybe makes more sense once I drop a cool big slime on the table, but there is a—there is a big gross slime that is—it’s not a slime, it’s not an actual slime, it is actually more like a big marble. That’s actually what it is. It’s a big silver marble, right? But it’s a liquid metal marble, so.
Ali: What’s Tom Cruise’s character’s name in War of the Worlds?
[Sylvi and Ali laugh]
Austin: I haven’t seen War of the Worlds.
Janine: Peter Worlds.
Austin: Oh, Peter Worlds is here.
Ali: Ohh.
Sylvi: Ray Ferrier.
Austin: Shut up.
Sylvi: I googled it!
Dre: Mr. Worlds Wide.
Ali: This is—[chuckles] yeah, I don’t know, I’m trying to reconnect with my guys, so that’s what I’m doing outside.
Austin: What’s that—tell me what that looks like.
Ali: I don’t know—ooh, god, okay.
Austin: [laughs] Too big.
Ali: [laughs] That’s a big fucking…
Dre: I don’t fuckin’ know!
Austin: I got rid of it. I got rid of it. I gotta find another one. I gotta find one that’s transparent.
Ali: That was so weird, because when you moved the image, it looked like the ball rolled with it, and I was like, what’s fucking happening? Okay.
Austin: That’s cool.
Ali: But I think—is it like—am I having to, like, actively avoid the spiky things, or?
Austin: I mean, again, I will get into more particular—it is going to destroy everything here. It is going to consume everything here. It is going to—it might kill your boy Jesset.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Like, it’s starting with big things. Like buildings and mechs, you know? As it’s moving through the campus, it is leaving behind a trail of the kind of silver, almost mercury-like, ooze that was the whole world, Thisbe, that you saw inside of its—when you were connected to its mind. So yeah, that’s—that is happening outside.
Ali: Can I just run in that direction?
Austin: Yeah. That wouldn’t stop you from running.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: That is a very Tom Cruise answer.
Austin: You keep the Tom Cruise running. Yeah, exactly. [laughs]
[Dre and Ali laugh]
Ali: ’Cause I keep thinking, like, what if I try to power on a vehicle, but like, if we need to get out of here, Thisbe has a truck. And then—
Austin: Wait. I mean—
Ali: Well, like, we have an escape plan, is what I mean. [chuckles]
Austin: Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: And then, like, what if I tried to, like, spark on one of these Altars, but that seems like a bad idea, too. I think being a little guy trying to get through this space and just like, get eyes on as many people as I can is my best option right here, right now. The thing that I’m doing is running towards Jesset’s mech and like, waving my arms and screaming, right? Like, seeing if they’re still alive in there, seeing if they’re willing to get out.
Austin: Yeah, they are alive in there. They, like, hop back one from the big cube, which is, for this moment, maybe—see, I said cube. This is why it needs to be—it can’t be a cube on my screen.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: It has to be a marble. Anyway.
Ali: Well, you GM, I’ll find the marble.
Austin: Hops over—yeah. And is like—well, no, because you have to talk to Jesset.
Ali: [laughing] Okay.
Austin: And Jesset is like,
Austin (as Jesset): Brnine, is that you?
Ali (as Brnine): Yes! Yes! Hello?
Austin: [chuckles] Why did you say it like that?
Ali: [laughing] I don’t know.
[Dre laughs]
Keith: Sometimes—hey, there’s just a kind of person that gets so weird when they’re talking on the phone.
Dre: Things are really stressful.
Austin: Things are really stressful. You’re right, you’re right.
Keith: And Brnine doesn’t even need that to start getting weird.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Mhm, mhm. Brnine can just get weird.
Keith: Brnine can just get weird.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: You want to get weird? Let’s get weird. Jesset calls down to you and is like,
Austin (as Jesset): Brnine. You really are here. What’s going on?
Ali (as Brnine): I was here with Cori and Thisbe to get this Motion thing, and we—we gotta get out of here. We gotta find them.
Austin (as Jesset): Where are they?
Ali (as Brnine): That one. The middle one.
Ali: Just pointing over their shoulder. [chuckles]
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh. And, you know, the—Ebullience has now rolled over one of the entire other buildings, and flails out a sort of tendril, and slams it through the wall of Building C, the kind of like, southwestern wall, just like, like nothing. Like a toddler running with their hands out to give them balance, you know?
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: But very destructively. But very playfully. I wonder if it laughs. I bet it laughs as it moves. Or it makes a sort of—maybe it’s not a laugh, it’s like, I think it bubbles and boils in pleasant ways for itself. Like its exterior occasionally boils, and that’s the equivalent of it being kind of like, “Ooh, a fun—haha, a fun thing happened.”
Janine: Like when a rat gets tickled.
Austin: Like that. Like when a rat gets tickled.
[Dre hums]
Austin: What do you do? Are you directing Jesset to go get them, are you running to go get them?
Ali: Is this a shared cockpit situation?
Sylvi: Oh…
Austin: In the—in the Jury? Maybe.
Dre: Ooh…
[Ali laughs]
Austin: It ain’t built for that. You know—
Dre: How cozy you wanna get?
Sylvi: Wow, we have to do a rescue mission and there’s only one cockpit.
Dre: Oh no, what are we gonna do?
Austin: I mean, Jesset kneels down—the left arm of the machine is fucked up, of the Jury, so can’t offer you that hand to lift you up, but kneels down and opens the cockpit. And as the cockpit opens, you know, you see the actual machine—like, the cockpit retracts in a way that’s not too dissimilar, like, there’s part of it that are like nanomachine style, that are not dissimilar from the way that Dahlia’s whole shit worked.
[Ali hums]
Austin: You know what I’m talking about? Like, the black Commitment stuff that was like, [Ali: Mhm.] it retracted and reshaped itself. In this case, it’s because literally parts of Mot—the heart of this thing is effectively a Motion engine. You know, pulled from the wreckage of Motion above Partizan, that is what Orion made or was making. This is an experimental model that Jesset got his hands on, we saw him use it in a conflict turn a little while ago. It’s dangerous, and you can see that it is like—it is like, hooked into him in ways. This is not a pleasant cockpit. You could fit in there, you know? But there’s not—you know. I don’t—I don’t—you’d have to—it would be a tight fit, I guess.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Is what I would say. I do not imagine this is like, a stand behind the cockpit, big O style cockpit. You know, or stand behind the—
Ali: Uh-huh, yeah.
Austin: This would be a sharing a seat, you know?
[Dre hums]
Ali: Well. Um… I think that I say, with being breathless and overwhelmed and not quite bringing the joke to my throat,
Ali (as Brnine): You kitted out in here, bro?
Austin: [scoffing] Oh my god.
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Yo.
Austin: Something—
Dre: Wait, can you say that again? Can we get a clean line?
Austin: Can we get a clean take? Yeah, I need you to deliver it genuinely, please?
[Ali continues laughing]
Ali: You’re kr—[stumbles]
Keith: Are you or are you not kitted out in here, bro?
[Ali laughs]
Ali (as Brnine): [breathy] You’re kitted out in here, bro.
Austin (as Jesset): It’s, uh… It’s impressive, uh, it’s… I didn’t make it, but it—just get in. [sighs]
Ali (as Brnine): Right, yeah, we—this is—you alright?
Austin (as Jesset): Yeah. Where are the rest?
Ali (as Brnine): The fuck—over there.
Austin (as Jesset): Okay.
Austin: I’m trying to—there we go. And begins moving in that direction.
Cori and Thisbe
[1:13:30]
Austin: Cori and Thisbe, there’s a huge—the whole building shakes as Ebullience knocks a hole through it. You can’t see that from inside of the lab if you’re still in the lab, but the—what you can certainly hear is like, emergency alarms going off everywhere. “Evacuate, evacuate,” you know, alarms going off. The—I actually suspect that there is like a panic room or a panic elevator here. Like a personal, you know, reinforced, escape—there aren’t fire escapes, but Exanceaster March has a personal fire exit, you know? Inside the lab that brings you down to some sort of safe zone. So you might not even go out the main building, or the main way. Unless your goal is “we have to go reconnect with Brnine and Jesset”, or with Brnine, and we know where Brnine is, which is out the front door, you know?
Or you could stay in here. Because the thing about in here is this whole place is going to like, I don’t know, you know? This place will get destroyed and anything in here might get destroyed, or might get loose, or might get turned on, you know, and be destructive, because it’s explosive or dangerous, you know?
Janine: [sighs] I would love to take that bulb thing, but I’m not sure if it’s possible.
Austin: It’s big. It’s really big. Again, it’s bigger than you and Cori.
Janine: Well, so am I. Like, how—oh, okay. Okay, nevermind.
Sylvi: There’s not like a—
Janine: Alright.
Austin: Yeah, it’s a huge device, yeah.
Sylvi: A cart or anything that we can…
Janine: Eh, at that point…
Austin: No, it’s gigant—it’s—Mow could carry it, you know? Or Mow and Jesset could carry it.
Janine: [chuckles] My other thought is a thought that I had last week that was too silly to mention. But the thought was what if there was some sort of gun that, like, reversed what an Axiom was? Or not a gun, but like, what if that was a thing? Could we explore that?
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: And then my thought here is like, has Exanceaster March explored that?
Austin: That sounds like a thing he would have explored.
Janine: Of just like, trying to like, you know, like, when you have one of those plastic bopper things and—
Austin: No, we know what these are.
Janine: And then you like, throw it and it goes boop! And goes the other way.
Austin: We know exactly what these are. We have the exact word for what this is, actually.
Janine: Uh-oh.
Austin: From Twilight Mirage.
Janine: Uh-oh.
Austin: It’s a concrete hamburger seatbelt? It’s a, quote, Janine says, “I have them in my—I have them noted here on my character sheet as ‘weird tendril concrete hamburger seatbelt.’”
Janine: [laughing] What the fuck was I talking about?
Austin: You don’t remember these.
Janine: What does that mean? That doesn’t mean anything!
Austin: Me in episode 58: “Yeah, I guess here’s a thing. How do you undo it? It’s the same device. It’s that same sort of seatbelt hamburger concrete device that we’ve been talking about on and off for six months to the point that I can say ‘seatbelt hamburger concrete device’ and you know what that means.”
Janine: No.
Austin: You don’t know what that means anymore? You don’t remember?
Janine: [laughing] I don’t know what that means!
Dre: Wow, wow.
Janine: What the fuck? Concrete hamburger… seatbelt…
Austin: It is—there were—there were these anti-Axiom devices for catching Axioms. You don’t remember this at all? None of this is coming back?
Janine: Oh, I do remember this.
Austin: Yeah, okay.
Janine: Yeah, yeah, yeah, it was like a Pokéball, but straps.
Austin: Yes.
Janine: Shaped like a hamburger.
Austin: And the first time it shows up is: “And when he says capture, Cat’s Cradle, like, pulls up—there’s like—I’m trying to imagine what this even looks like. I think it’s a long, black, thin, rectangular device on a side, not a bandolier, but a holster, basically. And then she taps a button on three times, and she has, like, one hand underneath it, and three, like, little kind of square-shaped, they almost look like old seatbelts or something, but bigger, right? Like, big like the size of a hamburger or something, but square.” And it says here: [laughing] “Janine: (incredulous) They’re like old seatbelts but the size of a hamburger?”
[Sylvi laughs]
Janine: Okay, so this is a thing you did.
Austin: Yeah. It’s an old metal seatbelt that has a button in the middle.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: The seatbelt connector bit. You know like when you plug in a seatbelt and there’s a button in the middle, like an old one? Oh my god. I can’t believe I’m here again.
[audible typing]
Dre: This is like a harness. Yeah, this is like a harness seatbelt.
Austin: Yeah, exactly. Like a classic vintage harness seatbelt.
Janine: So it’s like a car seat hamburger strap…
Austin: With tendrils on it.
Janine: Tendrils, Pokéball.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Pokéball. It’s an Axiom Pokéball, is what it was. I don’t know how you would identify this thing as being the thing you’re looking for. I actually think that this is the thing you need to find. You need to—did you spend that other Hold? You did. You spent both of the Holds for this. But I think if you could successfully give me a Read the Room here for a “what is being overlooked or obscured here” for there has to be a way to turn off an Axiom or to capture an Axiom, you could try to do that. You could try to find that.
Janine: Well, when I did the thing before, I did specifically ask what is being overlooked or obscured here.
Austin: You did, and I told you a bunch of stuff.
Janine: Okay…
Austin: Including a device—including, and actually, what you originally said was you were looking for a way to stop Motion. This seatbelt would not have been that, you know?
Janine: I—did I say that?
Austin: Well, that’s what your overall thing that you were looking for in this building was, right?
Janine: I was just looking for cool Exanceaster March shit that could go in any direction.
Austin: Sure. But again, that could go in any direction. Your goal was not “I need something that can stop Ebullience”.
Janine: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Uh, okay. Well, I guess I’ll roll that.
Austin: Plus Sense. And you could take advantage on this because you already, you know, you’ve already gotten the lay of the land for this place, right?
Janine: Yeah, we’ve kind of picked over the room a bit.
Austin: Exactly. So, and that’s—you know, the way that works, the way that Read the Room works is you take advantage when you act on the answers, and one of the answers was everything is divided up into little sections, so you have the basics of it. So 3d6 plus Sense, which I think is 1. [pause] That is a 11. 6 plus 4 plus 1 is 11. The regular 1 we can get rid of. So yeah, you get three questions here in this scenario.
Janine: Okay. Um, well, what is being obscured or, uh… overlooked.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: Yeah, well, there you go. You see—you find, like, a diagram of this seatbelt device. Again, if you imagine like a vintage seatbelt, like just the clasp part, with the button on it, that kind of shows that if you can get attached to this thing and hit the button, it can begin a process of restraining an Axiom. This is a replica, this was modeled after stuff from—recovered from the Twilight Mirage. This is—it has been tested on smaller parts of Ebullience, it’s never been—it’s never been tested on the big main ball, because the scientists were afraid that if you did that, it would be that. There would be no more—
Janine: Right, they didn’t want to blow it.
Austin: Yeah, exactly. You know? So.
Janine: That’s fair.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: How is Ebullience at risk or in peril?
Austin: It is at risk of being—let me think. It is—I do want to give you a Risk here, because it is—you know, I think that it is distracted, or like, overwhelmed, or like, it is undirected, right? It is kind of just like, going—it doesn’t have an aim, right? It’s just raw bubbling joy, and so it’s not—it’s not actually paying attention to everything, so I would say that it’s—one Risk it has is Distracted. Or Undirected I like more.
Janine: I guess we know where I can find it, it’s a big ball.
Austin: Yeah, it’s the big ball. You can hold on to your remaining one if you want to.
Janine: Yeah, I might do that. [audible typing] “Hold 1 for big ball.”
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: Okay, I’m gonna grab the ham—hamburger seatbelt?
Austin: Yep. That’s right, that’s the official name of it.
Dre: Uh, hamburger concrete seatbelt.
Janine: Concrete hamburger seatbelt, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Sylvi: Concrete hamburger seatbelt.
Janine: The seatbelts aren’t concrete, right? Yeah.
Austin: The seatbelts are not, right. What it does is produce that sort of—I don’t know if you remember this, there’s that concrete that, like, shuts magic down from the Twilight Mirage that ends up being connected to one of the subgroups there.
Sylvi: Oh, the Concretetown Particulars, right?
Austin: The Concretetown Particulars, yeah, exactly. It produces that type of concrete, which the Grey Pool folks are tied to, [Janine: Mhm.] who also have the sort of Concretists here, who we don’t have too much connection with these days, but we’re in—we’re in the road. Yeah, so, tied to that.
[1:22:25]
Austin: Jesset and Brnine, you have made it up to the kind of front door of this place. Jesset is defending the mech with, like, summoning new kind of shields to block incoming attacks. This thing is wild, Brnine. This is using the kind of what was Perennial Wave back in the day. I don’t know if you remember this, Motion used to be able to summon stuff from the Perennial Wave, just make it whole, you know? And this thing has some of that in it, and is using it as like, nanomachines to make stuff. Unfortunately, you can see that it’s running out, because normally what happens is it has it all around it. The world is filled with the Perennial Wave and Kalmeria, right? But in this moment, because of what’s happening, because of this hiccup, it is not going to be able to keep making shields and weapons the way it normally does. And so, there are, like, warning lights going off.
This is the problem with not just having—you know, like, even its weapon is like, summons bullets out of the air, effectively, you know? There is—it has a handful of already made physical things which are these kind of almost like javelin-looking bits that fly off of its back, and are like little, you know, they’re bits. They’re self-propelled drone type things that can, like, launch and can either stab or shoot themselves basically, and at this point, Jesset is all the way into that mode. Is like, using those, but once those break, that is kind of it in terms of armaments. You also see that Jesset is, like, hooked into this thing in a way that you've never seen him before at this point. Which is part of why he’s able to move so fast, and part of why he’s able to like, keep up with this thing, but has not been able to get a hit in, you know? Is just kind of able to keep everyone—keep you two safe, I guess, as you move towards the big open hole in the side of the building.
Ali (as Brnine): Okay, okay, okay. We’ll meet up with Cori and Thisbe, and we’ll just leave this thing here, and we’ll get out of here.
Austin (as Jesset): Just leave this thing here? Who knows when this thing will stop?
Ali (as Brnine): Well, I—look at your sensors.
Austin (as Jesset): I—my sensors are like this all the time these days. We just have to push through it.
Ali (as Brnine): I… [Ali chuckles] We just have to get out of here. Can you put it on like, auto, or something? We’ll just climb out.
Austin (as Jesset): Put it on auto? No, it doesn’t have an auto. It needs a pilot.
Ali (as Brnine): Okay.
Austin: Block, stab, you know?
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Gun explodes.
Austin (as Jesset): You should go. I’ll stay and keep it busy.
Ali (as Brnine): That’s stupid.
Austin (as Jesset): Why is that stupid? This is what we do.
Ali (as Brnine): Because we should just go. We should just go.
Austin: Do you have to convince him of this?
[Ali laughs]
Ali: Oh, I have this message that I didn’t hit enter on in Roll20 which is really funny. [laughs]
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh, yeah. For sure.
[Dre chuckles]
Austin: Unbelievable.
Dre: Must be nice!
[Dre and Ali laugh]
Austin: Cori and Thisbe, are you leaving the room to go back out into the big hallway at this point?
Janine: I think so, I have a—
Sylvi: Yeah.
Janine: I do have a plan personally now.
Sylvi: Oh, okay.
Austin: Okay. Good. As you run out the door, you see Jesset’s shield shatter [Janine: Oh, boy.] and the Ebullience, like, tendril slap down and then spike forward at the two of them. You’re not piloting, Brnine, right?
Ali: Um, no. I might be doing—I might be, in terms of this game, doing some assists, you know? But…
Austin: Yeah, it’s weird, because Jesset doesn’t have a character sheet.
Ali: [laughing] Uh-huh.
Austin: You know, the two of you are about to get stabbed by this thing. I don’t know how bad, you know? I’m trying to figure out what the roll for preventing that would be at this point.
Ali: Oh, sure.
Austin: Or interfering, or distracting it more.
Ali: Um, yeah.
Austin: And it might not come from you. It might come from Cori and Thisbe. Thisbe, what’s your big plan?
Janine: I was gonna say, yeah, part of my plan does involve distraction, literally.
Austin: Okay, so then what is it? Yeah.
Janine: Okay, so, like I did before, the thing I’m gonna do is I’m just gonna explain the way that this looks in my head.
Austin: Yep.
Janine: And I’m explaining it knowing that it will be multiple rolls—
Austin: Multiple rolls, yep. I gotcha. Mhm.
Janine: Multiple moves, multiple different stages. Okay?
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: I want to make a giant illusory rabbit for—
Sylvi: Oh.
[Austin hums]
Janine: Or mouse, or some sort of small frisky prey animal, but like, big for the ball to get excited about, and then I want to hamburger it.
Austin: Okay. A thing I’ll say is—
Ali: Hamburger it?
Austin: With the seatbelt.
Ali: Oh, right.
Janine: The concrete hamburger seatbelt.
Austin: The concrete hamburger seatbelt.
Ali: Yes, yes, yes.
Austin: We only have—it only has one—it only has one Risk on it right now, so you’re gonna need to put two more on it before you hamburger it, but I do think distracting it with a big bunny could do that.
Janine: Yeah. We can distract it and then the bunny can maybe do something really, like, “Woah!” and then it’s like winded or whatever, I don’t know.
Austin: [scoffs] Okay.
Dre: “Woah!”
[Janine laughs]
Austin: Give me your—this is your Tactical Illusions, right?
Janine: This is Tactical Illusions, which I roll with Channel.
Austin: Plus Channel, which your Channel is 2.
Janine: My Channel is 2.
Austin: 2d6 plus 2.
Janine: Is there like an approach thing to consider here or anything?
Austin: There is, and you don’t know what its approach is.
Janine: Oh, that’s—okay, I—yeah. That’s what I want to use my other Hold on.
Austin: Good.
Janine: I thought about doing that, but then I was like, well, does that make sense for—yeah.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: I want to use my other Hold to be like, what’s this thing’s approach?
Austin: Its approach is Arcane, which is strong against Divine. Which means that you will be rolling with Desperation, but you’ll also be rolling with advantage, because of using this roll, using that question to get that knowledge. Read the Room gives you advantage when you act on the answers of what you’ve asked. So it will be a 3d6, but take 1s as 6s, unless someone does something here.
Janine: Also—
Keith: Can I counteract that Desperation?
Austin: You sure could.
Janine: Don’t—don’t. Don’t.
Keith: Okay.
Janine: You don’t need to. I can do it myself.
Ali: Woah.
Dre: Ooh.
Austin: Damn. Damn.
Janine: “Alternating Current: Once per Sortie, you may ignore approach-based Desperation.”
Austin: Love that. Boom.
Keith: Ooh, sick.
Austin: Here it is. That makes perfect sense, too, right? Because it’s like, yes, you can switch into non-Divine magic, too.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: We’ve seen—that’s what you’ve used—
Janine: I’m still new to this whole Divine thing, it’s not—
Austin: Yeah. It’s easy. Don’t worry about it, yeah.
Janine: I’m not fully in there.
Austin: Alright.
Janine: So what’s this roll again?
Austin: 3d6 plus Channel, plus 2.
Janine: Alright. [displeased] Eh…
Austin: That’s still an 8, 4 plus 2 plus 2 is 8. So that is a mixed success, which—oh, no. Oh, no.
Dre: Uh-oh.
Austin: “On a 7 to 9, choose one, but your illusions also distract an unintended audience.”
Janine: [hums] Mhm.
[Ali gasps]
Sylvi: [in Cori’s voice] “Woah, a bunny!”
[Ali, Dre, and Austin laugh]
Ali: Cori, nooo…
Austin: You also—you only get to choose one of the following, which is “The illusions last until you stop sustaining them, otherwise they last up to a minute.” “Your illusions affect anyone you intend to perceive them, rather than a single person.” Or “You can create illusions that affect all the senses rather than just sight.”
Janine: I’m going with the first one.
Austin: Which is “they last until you stop sustaining them”.
Janine: Yes.
Austin: So they can last for ongoing.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Sure. Okay. Unfortunately, they do distract an unintended audience, and I think that it’s an indirect thing. I don’t think Jesset sees this, but I do think Jesset is like, ah, I have an opening—so, you summon the bunny. What’s it do?
Janine: It’s like—also, to be clear, it’s probably not a bunny, it’s probably just like some sort of hybrid rodent-y animal, like, you know?
Austin: Okay. Yeah, uh-huh. It’s a space bunny, it’s a cabbit, it’s a…
Janine: It’s probably not explicitly a big bunny, but like, it’s supposed to be like a big sort of like, you know, a thing that can hop and scurry and has a swishy little tail and is very twitchy and, like, jumpy and—
Austin: You’re describing a bunny.
Janine: Yeah, I’m thinking of, like, bunnies, gerboas, chinchillas, that kind of thing.
Austin: Sure, I see. Yeah.
Janine: Something like, fluffy and strange. And the thing I’m basically summoning it to do is to, like, jump around and be a more exciting target.
Austin: Right. Yeah.
Janine: And be, like, strange and unpredictable in a way that, like, a person in a robot isn’t going to be.
Austin: Yes. I’m giving it Distracted, I think that this totally works, this is fun, it is—and the thing about it is like, it’s an illusion, so it’s able to like—it’s able to move in ways that it maybe couldn’t, necessarily, [Janine: Yeah, yeah.] and it doesn’t take damage when it gets hit. It doesn’t, you know, you’re able to start to kite this thing with this big rodent…
Janine: I just gave the Axiom an iPad and said have fun.
Austin: You truly did.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: Unfortunately, Jesset, I think, is also distracted by the illusion, not in the sense of “Hey, I am—I see the big bunny also, I’m chasing the bunny,” but in the like “Now’s our chance, we have to kill this thing,” and charges forward, hand out, to like, I don’t know, punch it, rip it apart? You know?
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: The Jury still has its hands, you know? It still can reach out and do physical damage in that way—has it hand, its one arm is fucked up, or the shoulder was messed up—so yeah, is able to like, charge forward, which has not put Brnine in any less of a dangerous position. And Jesset’s like,
Austin (as Jesset): I don’t know what has its attention, but we have to act now if we want to save anybody.
Austin: Jesset is throwing his life—you’re seeing a person throw his life away, Brnine.
Ali: Yeah. I was—yeah. I’m hearing—this is Jesset’s The Beast episode. [laughs]
Austin: Uh-huh. Yeah.
Ali: Um… oh, boy. Um… What do I have access to here?
Austin: I mean, you could just try to talk him down. You could, you know, be a commander about it. I don’t know.
Ali: [gasps] I still have Selfless.
Austin: You still have—what’s Selfless?
Ali: “You may put yourself in Peril—”
Austin: Oh my god.
Ali: “—to completely defend another from another source of incoming harm—”
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Janine: Oh my god.
Ali: [dissolving into laughter] “—like a blade or a challenging statement, no matter how severe it is.”
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Austin: You can’t put yourself in Peril, you’re already at 3.
Ali: Yeah, what is the—
[Sylvi laughs]
Keith: What would happen, right, is that you would replace a Risk with the Peril, and then you’d Bite the Dust?
[Ali gasps] [Sylvi laughs]
Austin: That is what you would do.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You are—
Sylvi: You sound so excited.
[Ali gasps]
Austin: Ali is so excited about getting to roll Bite the Dust.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: All these freaks with their death wishes, I don’t get it.
Keith: Why are you—why do you want to do that?
Austin: “...putting them in Peril is a much harder move, da-da-da… having them replace a Risk with a Peril, ba-ba-ba….” Uh-huh.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: “Attack someone who’s—” I’m just double-checking.
Ali: [laughing] Oh, let’s go.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: What does this look like? While I double-check the rules to see if you’re really Biting the Dust here.
Ali: Okay. [laughs]
[Dre laughs]
Ali: Oh, man. I mean, it could look like a lot of things, right?
Austin: Mhm.
Ali: It could be the thing of like, just—this isn’t a very joystick-y cockpit, obviously, [Austin: No.] but it could be like, putting—like, physically pulling, like, a lever, or like, putting their hand on Jesset’s and like, wheeling it the other way.
Austin: Right.
Ali: Or whatever. To sort of like, physically move the mech out of the way, but like, [Austin: Uh-huh.] opening the cockpit area up to some sort of physical attack that I bet isn’t [laughs] great.
Sylvi: It’s fine. [chuckles]
Dre: It’s probably chill.
Austin: If you are put in Peril—yeah, “If you would be put in Peril, but already have three Dangers, replace a Risk with it if you have one; otherwise, Bite the Dust in desperation until the end of the Sortie.” Further Dangers just trigger Bite the Dust instead. I actually think what happens here is you have to—I do think you get put into Peril because you’re already at three. I think that third Risk becomes a Peril. You would still be Defenseless.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: I’m just doing—I know you want to Bite the Dust here.
Ali: [laughing] I know.
Keith: Why do you want that? I don’t understand.
Ali: [laughing] Because it would be really good.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: People have different goals in life.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: I think that you’re taking—
Janine: I put this in the chat, but I do want to say it out loud. “Brnine’s life goal is to die in Jesset’s lap. We can’t take this away from them.”
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Many such cases, you know, like? I’m not gonna judge.
Austin: Many such cases. Many such cases.
[Janine laughs]
Austin: I think—
Sylvi: Cori’s got that, too. Different lap, though.
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: But the funny thing here is, you know, when you touch Jesset’s hand to, you know, move, that’s all it takes. Because the move is you put yourself in peril to completely defend another from one source of incoming harm. So, what’s the peril you’re in? Are you, like—I almost said committed, but that has connotations I don’t mean.
[Ali chuckles]
Sylvi: I mean…
Austin: But like, are you, like, it’s seeing that you are here with him, that has him going like “Oh, what the—I shouldn’t die here. This is stupid.” But what is it that puts you in peril—what is the peril you’re in, I guess, is my question? Is it simply—
Ali: Is it like—
Austin: Yeah, go ahead.
Ali: Desperate? Is it, like—
Austin: [hums] Mhm.
Ali: Because like, what’s the Risk thing of like, what do you—
Austin: That’s the Risk part of it, but this is Peril. So it has to be a—
Ali: Right, no, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: [laughing] Remember, you have to go to therapy over this.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: In the parlance of the Chime and of Technoir.
Ali: Uh-huh. Yeah.
Austin: This takes—yeah.
Ali: Right, but the thing of like, acting so erratically here [Austin: Yeah.] because of the Twilight Mirage things, because of the danger, because of the, like, “Oh, I’m the person here who protects other people.”
Austin: Right.
Ali: “That’s what I do. I’m the captain.”
Austin: “I’m the captain now,” right.
[Ali and Sylvi laugh]
Ali: Just like, you know. Like, I purposely kept Stunned forever as this, like—
Austin: I remember, yeah.
Ali: This sort of like, chaoticness, this, like…
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: I guess—yeah.
Austin: Peril, Chaotic.
Ali: [laughs] I’m probably gonna write Desperate, but I’m typing Desperate into WordHippo real quick.
Austin: I think Desperate makes—but like, it’s desperate—it’s beyond desperate, right? It’s—or it’s—it’s not desperate like “I’m desperate in this moment,” it’s desperate as in “I am a desperate person right now.” Right?
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: And I think that that’s—that that is part of what Jesset feels, is your Desperation. And so, you know, turns his back and the Jury’s back on this thing to go, you know, meet up with Cori and Thisbe.
[1:37:18]
Austin: Cori and Thisbe, what I can only describe as a more advanced version of a—it’s like a futuristic version of the old AdArm troop is here. Instead of the weird LCD eye, this thing does have, like, a pixel face on it, the Jury. And it has, like, a—the face is like a screen, basically, and the screen says “It’s Jesset and Brnine.” And raises the hand, the right hand of this thing, to be like, “I’m not here to hurt you,” you know? And then it, you know, through the speakers, Jesset says, like,
Austin (as Jesset): We have to get out of here. I have Brnine on board.
Janine (as Thisbe): I have a tool to disable the Axiom.
Austin: And inside the cockpit, Jesset goes,
Austin (as Jesset): Captain, if we can stop it…
Janine (as Thisbe): The Axiom desires complete consumption of everything. It will expand and churn and consume. We should stop it if we can.
Austin: I’m gonna move it down here a little bit chasing the rabbit. The rodent.
Janine: Is there a big rodent on the thing?
[Ali chuckles]
Janine: You didn’t put a rabbit on the—
Dre: Don’t put Austin through this again.
Janine: Oh, it’s small, though. There you go. Yay.
Austin: There we go.
Janine: That’s a sports team guy, isn’t it?
Austin: No, this says “rat’. It’s from the “pack of foes” set.
Ali: Ooh.
Janine: Oh, okay. That looks like it’s from, like, the Seattle Rats Cricket League or something.
[Austin laughs]
Dre: Yeah, this looks like from an NBA 2k create-a-team logo selection.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: It does. It does look like a create-a-team logo.
Ali (as Brnine): We don’t have a lot of time.
Austin (as Jesset): What do you mean?
Janine (as Thisbe): Then you can go.
Austin: Ooh. Damn.
[Ali laughs]
Janine: Wait, sorry, do I hear that?
Dre: Woah!
Austin: Presumably.
Janine: Is the—
Ali (as Brnine): No, Thisbe, we’ll help you.
[Austin scoffs] [Ali chuckles]
Austin: Changed your mind real quick.
Ali: Well, it’s, you know. This is the power-up moment.
Janine (as Thisbe): I will stay and finish this no matter what. If you do not believe you will survive, you should leave.
Ali (as Brnine): I’m not leaving without you, Thisbe.
Austin (as Jesset): Then let’s do it.
Janine: Yeah. Can I blow up a building on it or something? Just to get that third—that third Risk?
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: Can you blow up a building on it or something? Great question.
Janine: The mouse ran away, right?
Austin: I mean, a funny thing here is—we’ve been—you’ve been interacting with it in real secondary ways, which is to say, we haven’t had to deal with the tier difference at all because you’ve been distracting it, you’ve been like, emotionally attacking it, you know?
[Dre and Janine chuckle]
Austin: Directly attacking it might be—dropping a—I don’t think dropping a building on it would do anything.
Janine: Right.
Austin: You know? Or rather, you would—you’re at the point now where, like, physically it’s—attacking it is hard because of the tier difference.
Janine: Yeah.
Dre: What tier is it? Can you tell us that?
Austin: It’s Tier 5.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah, it’s a big one.
Austin: Yeah. And it might become Tier 6 with enough time, so. Time to—which is maybe a point in the favor of getting rid of it now, or stopping it now.
Janine: Mhm. Um…
Ali: Uh… Yeah, is this like a, we re-engage and then Thisbe does a thing? What’s the thing that Thisbe has to do?
Austin: Hamburger.
Janine: Hamburger.
Ali: Right. Well, is it just like—is it like, throwing a Beyblade, or like—[laughs]
Austin: That’s a Strike Decisively.
Janine: Pokéball hamburger.
Austin: Pokéball hamburger.
Ali: Okay, it’s a Pokéball. Okay, okay, okay.
Austin: Pokéball hamburger. It will be very hard to do it because of the—the tier difference is really big, you know?
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Is—what’s the stabbiest thing that Jesset has?
Austin: Uh, Jesset kind of used all the—I mean, I guess at this point, Jesset could pick up a weapon from one of the fallen Altars, right? And just use another thing’s weapon. That’s possible, right? Stabbiest, what do they got? They got… Let’s see here. Do-do-do. DId I write it down here? No, I wrote it down over here. Yeah, some of them have, like, beam—some of them have like, batons, and other ones have, like, glaives, like big tall glaives, and so maybe what happens is one of the ones I deleted is, you know, was when the map was over here, and is like, is able to pick up one of these beam glaives and set it up as like, a charging attack.
Those are still—there’s still a big, you know, if I was rolling for Jesset here, or maybe if you rolled Crew or something, you would still be rolling—in fact, I don’t even know if—there’d still be a—or no, you know what? This machine is a Tier 4, so it would only be a one—it would only be a one tier difference, so it’s rollable.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: But it would be a tier difference, and it would not be a—there would be no Confidence. And so, I would let you roll it as Crew—with Crew if you would count Jesset as Crew, but I don’t know if Jesset’s part of your crew in that way. You tell me.
Janine: Oh, come on.
Ali: I think in this moment.
Austin: In this moment, I think it counts, yes. Yeah.
Ali: Then we could do, like, a Weather the Storm situation?
Austin: No, this would—oh yeah, I guess that would be—you know, I actually think it’s Crew, Exchange Blows.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Right? And it’s at disadvantage, so it’s 3d6, because it’s a one tier difference between the Jury which is a Tier 4 in this thing.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: Oh, and I’m wrong. Oh, I’m wrong, actually. There’s no—there is no—this doesn’t matter. There’s no approach differentiation between those two. They’re not related in any way. They’re just like, not near each other, so. So, yeah. Do you want to do that? 3d6 plus—what’s your Crew score? 3?
Ali: Yeah, and I just—
Austin: Have you used this before this—you haven’t used Crew yet this time, right?
Ali: No. No, no, no.
Austin: Okay. But we do—we have to track usages, because you’re not on the ship.
Ali: Oh, sure, sure, sure. Okay.
Austin: So, let’s keep that in mind.
Ali: Okay. Also, I just want to make sure I wasn’t stepping on any bigger plan Janine had for…
Austin: Well, this isn’t killing it. This is just adding another…
Janine: No, yeah, I just need another Risk on there before we can hamburger.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: Oh, okay, okay, okay. Um… So, 3d6 plus 3?
Austin: 3d6 plus 3, yeah.
Ali: Okay. That’s pretty—that’s real good. Um… Okay. [laughs]
Austin: Uh-huh. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. Easy. Easy. Get rid of that 1. Ignore that 1. So yeah, you get an 11 here, and yeah, Jesset charges forward with this beam glaive, and I don’t think that the glaive itself is doing too much damage to it, but it does give the—at this point, finally, you know, Ebullience—between the distraction of the rat, the rodent, and now Jesset and Brnine—it is stretched thin, quite literally. It feels like it’s going to break into multiple parts if it’s not careful. And it is Defenseless in this moment, and also, like, a little oblong. It’s not letting me edit this thing, but imagine I edited it to be stretched funny. You know?
Keith: Oh, that is funny.
Austin: Yeah. Thanks.
[Sylvi, Keith, and Ali laugh]
Austin: Thank you for joining me on my imagination journey. So yeah, it’s Defenseless now. Thisbe, if you want to try to run up and Strike Decisively, it is still—I mean, this is the fucked up thing, is—I believe per the rules, I don’t know that you can do this without—I don’t know that you can attach the hamburger yourself. ’Cause it is three—you are Tier 1. It is Tier 5. When you fight a tier—when you fight a thing that is above you, Tier 1 above you is you have disadvantage; Tier 2 above you is you have—unless you have Ruin, you fail, Bite the Dust; Tier 3 is above you is you fail, Bite the Dust. I imagine this thing has Ruin on it, but you need to be, like, part of a Tier 3 thing to use it, you know?
Keith: We gotta get the ship over here.
Austin: I guess—or like…
Ali: Or is it like Thisbe on the shoulder of Jesset’s thing?
Janine: Mow is also tier 3.
Austin: Mow is also tier 3, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: Is Mow here?
Austin: Mow is not here.
Dre: Is Cori’s mech there?
Austin: None of the mechs are here.
Sylvi: No.
Dre: Okay, okay.
Austin: They’re all on the ship, and the ship isn’t here yet.
Janine: Oh, right.
Austin: Because you told Hunting—
Sylvi: I also don’t know if I can pilot it anymore, you know?
Austin: Great question. You told Hunting to wait for the flares, and the flares never showed up.
[Ali chuckles]
Sylvi: Well, I—
Austin: Hunting’s like, “I guess I’m waiting.”
Sylvi: I do have on me a flare thing that I could use if we’re outside.
Austin: We are outside at this point, if you want to be.
Sylvi: That I got in the first downtime.
[Austin hums]
Ali: Ohh.
Janine: Wow.
Keith: Wow.
Sylvi: The ripcord flare.
Austin: Wow.
Sylvi: The Concealable, Ward, Loud, which I don’t know if any of that applies, but…
Austin: I mean, if it’s concealable, that means you could have it on you.
Sylvi: I mean, the concealable would make me have it on me, yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: It’s more just like…
Janine: Mhm.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: Okay.
Austin: Do it.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Okay—
Austin: I mean, does Brnine tell you that? ’Cause otherwise you wouldn’t know.
Sylvi: That’s true.
Austin: You would have to—[chuckles] poppin’ flares, bro.
Ali: Right.
Janine: Also, wait, would it just be better for me to hop on Jesset’s mech’s shoulder?
Austin: Maybe.
Janine: If that’s what I’m mostly gonna do with Mow…
Austin: Because that’s what you do with Mow anyway, so…
Janine: But Mow is one tier lower…
Austin: I think, and a thing that’s funny is like, I think generally speaking, that is not available for people. Just “be on a mech” makes you Tier 3, but that’s how you pilot Mow.
[Ali chuckles]
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: So that’s not rare for you. Do you know what I mean?
Janine: Yeah. Is it—this actually feels rude, [chuckles] but, is it, like, does it count more if Thisbe goes on the mech and is able to like, kinda hijack it a little bit?
Austin: And do the piloting. Yeah, maybe.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Potentially.
Janine: Is that like, some Animation Matrix stuff?
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Janine: Or, uh…
Austin: Oh, that’s interesting.
Janine: Or some Integrity stuff? I’ve still got Integrity hanging around here. I feel like I’m under-using Integrity.
Austin: You are under-utilizing Integrity. Integrity plus Animation Matrix plus this mech that is based around a Motion engine is fascinating to me. You tell me.
Janine: Okay, can I make a pitch?
Austin: Please.
Janine: You know Venom? Spider-Man’s Venom?
Austin: Yeah. Spider-Man’s Venom, yeah.
Sylvi: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Janine: And how, sometimes, like, goop tentacles shoot out, grab stuff?
Austin: Yeah. I know how goop tentacles shoot out, grab stuff.
Janine: What if Thisbe—
Austin: That’s what is happening with Ebullience, to some degree.
Janine: Eh, sure. What if Thisbe jump on Jesset mech, you know, cool jump, do cool jump, run up arm, do flip…
Austin: Mhm, mhm. Yeah.
Ali: Oh.
Sylvi: Hypnotic.
Janine: Does it have like a head, or?
Austin: Yeah, it has a head. That’s where the screen face is. Yeah.
Janine: Okay. I’m picturing her, like, jamming her foot into some sort of, like, surface thing.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: And then, like, having her knee sort of against the back of its neck.
Austin: Uh-huh?
Janine: As her posture.
Austin: Right.
Janine: And then Venom stuff. Then, like, golden Integrity stuff, like—
Austin: Spreads out from…
Janine: Like, she reaches her hand or something onto the back of its head and then, like, [Austin: Yeah.] some Integrity shit flows from the nape of her neck [Austin: Yeah.] down her arm to the nape of this thing’s neck.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: And then Thisbe says something like, “Apologies, I just need a moment.”
Janine (as Thisbe): Apologies, Operants, I need a moment.
Austin: Okay. This is—you feel a presence—Integrity hits something it didn’t expect to hit. But it’s working. Let’s do your roll and then we’ll wrap back around on Integrity.
Janine: [exhaling] Okay… [chuckling] What is this?
Austin: Integrity has just been a medium for feeling other things. This is—this is Strike Decisively.
Janine: Yeah, I’m kind of putting Integrity through the ringer.
Austin: Yeah. This is Strike Decisively, which is Clash, I believe.
Janine: Hell yeah. I love a Clash.
Austin: Yeah. 2d6 plus—but it is, there is a—okay, so, again, really quick, yeah, this is a Tier 4, so it actually, it’s—’cause you do have disadvantage, ’cause it is still a tier difference.
Janine: Mhm. Yeah.
Austin: So 3d6, take lowest. I’m also going to do a thing that’s mean, and spend a token that I have to force you to act in desperation.
Janine: How rude.
Austin: Mhm.
Janine: So rude.
Keith: Now can I counteract that?
[Sylvi and Austin laugh]
Sylvi: I love that this session has just been Keith in the background being like, “Can I do the move?”
Keith: Waiting for someone that’s gonna roll Desperation.
Austin: Yes. You absolutely can, but it complicates things for yourself, right?
Keith: Yeah, let’s look at—let’s just take a look at my Ri—I just have one Risk, I think? Let’s see. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. Overwhelmed.
Keith: I’m Overwhelmed, yeah, whatever. I have one Peril.
Austin: Your Overwhelmed Peril. Yeah. Mhm. And this actually works out perfectly, Keith, because of where I’m getting this token.
Keith: I would love to complicate something for myself, because I have been just sitting here, so.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I gotcha.
[Ali laughs]
Janine: I’m also looking for an excuse to make an Eclectic clock, so.
Austin: Yeah. Well, this is weird because it’s—
Keith: [cross] Yeah, I just lost my only clock, so.
Janine: Yeah, right?
Austin: This is weird meta-game-y, but not—like, Eclectic isn’t literally doing something for you, it’s a B-Plot move.
Janine: I know, but—sure.
Austin: But yeah. Uh, alright.
Janine: Okay, so what am I rolling? 3d6 plus 2?
Austin: You are just rolling 3d6 plus 2, but take lowest.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: Because it’s still disadvantage. Well, it don’t matter, because it’s three 5s.
Janine: Well… [laughs]
Keith: Oh, nice.
Janine: 5, 5, 5. Plus 2.
Austin: Yeah, that’s a 12.
Sylvi: That’s a fake phone number.
Dre: Damn.
Austin: [laughs] It is.
[Janine laughs]
Austin: The Hollywood phone number roll. Yeah. So yeah, you’re able to charge forward and slam this concrete hamburger seatbelt right into this thing.
[Sylvi and Dre laugh]
Austin: And the tendrils inside of it kind of—it’s also sort of a Venom thing, in the sense of like, these weird tendrils pop out of it, and begin to wrap around Ebullience, begins to like, slowly restrain it into place, and the concrete begins to spread through it, and it slowly begins to solidify.
Keith: Finally, the fight people have been dying for. Evil Venom versus “question mark on the line kind of Venom on our team” Venom.
[Janine and Austin laugh]
Austin: Yeah, that’s right.
[Keith laughs]
Austin: It’s a little different, yeah. Mixing it up for people.
Janine: I love Mugen.
Austin: [laughing] Mhm, that’s right, yes. I guess, you know, Ebullience does have kind of a Virtual Fighter—is it Durandal in Virtual Fighter? Is that right? It’s just Dural? Something like that. Which is like a—yeah, Dural is like a weird silver guy, you know?
Janine: Oh, right, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Silver lady? I don’t remember.
Sylvi: Which is great, because that also—oh, no, I’m thinking of Fighters Megamix, which has the car, which you can make the car, like, the weird metal…
[Janine chuckles]
Austin: It just has the car, yeah, in Fighters Megamix, yeah, yeah, yeah. And it turns into—the lone marble of the Lone Marble Group, the Axiom Ebullience, has been turned into corporate art, here between buildings B and buildings F.
Sylvi: Nooo…
[Janine laughs]
Austin: There is a huge concrete ball that is—
Sylvi: They turned it into a Target ball?!
Austin: They turned it into a Target ball.
Ali: The marble. I get it now.
Austin: Yeah. It’s the marble.
Janine: Does this take care of the one that’s in my brain?
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: No, it doesn’t.
Janine: Ah.
Austin: That’s important. It doesn’t do that.
Janine: So then it doesn’t—it also doesn’t—the bits that were in the buildings?
Austin: The one bit—there’s only the one inside the building. It’s running the—that one’s still running the course. Oh, and then there’s the spray, I guess, right?
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: That spray will…
Janine: And then the fountain? Or was this the fountain?
Austin: This was the thing that I think you described as a fountain, yeah.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: This was the big one that was rolling around. This was the bulk of it, you know? But yeah, there’s still the little bit inside of you, and speaking of things inside of you, Integrity has—
Sylvi: Excuse you?
Janine: Huh?
Austin: Well, you reached inside of this—
Sylvi: Okay.
Janine: Okay.
Sylvi: Phrasing.
Austin: I know. Well, listen. I—okay, come on. Come on now.
[Janine laughs]
Austin: You knew what I mean. Once you start putting Divines into your interior body, you know? It’s—phrasing has to happen sometimes.
Janine: Mhm, yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: And speaking of Divines being inside of things, inside of the Jury is a little tiny bit of Motion still.
Sylvi: Oh…
Austin: And Integrity feels it.
[Ali whimpers]
Sylvi: [muffled groan]
Austin: And Integrity starts to—“Hey, we gotta get you out of there, buddy. [chuckling] You’re not supposed to be in there.”
Janine: [apprehensive] Eh, hmm…
Austin: And you can feel Integrity reaching its hands into—not its literal hands, right? But it’s gripping this thing that’s tied—that is—you know, it’s a sort of inverse, right? You have trapped this Axiom, but in this moment, Integrity has felt something else that’s been trapped, and is trying to free it. Is trying to release it, trying to bring it up into you in the same way.
Integrity spent the last, I don’t know, 20 years or whatever in a sort of unique situation. It didn’t just have a single Elect, it had an Elect and another Divine with it. It had Commitment along with Dahlia, and here it’s like, “Ooh, there’s a little—there’s a little shell of a Divine I could nurture and have a friend in my life again. I could have another—”
Keith: Little baby bird Motion.
Austin: A little baby bird Motion is in here, in this machine.
Keith: “It’s not supposed to be trapped in there, it’s supposed to be trapped in me!”
Austin: Right. Exactly.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: And is trying to pull it out. And you—
Janine: Are Ebullience’s feelings hurt by this?
Austin: I don’t think so. I don’t think—
Janine: [laughing] The little bit of Ebullience that’s…
Austin: The little bit of—“Why not me?”
Janine: “I could have been your friend. I’m fun!”
Austin: “I could have been your friend,” yeah.
Janine: “I’m so fun! We could have sleepovers…”
Austin: Uh-huh.
Ali: I feel—yeah. I feel like there’s a few Divines that are like, “Hey…” [laughs]
Austin: Well, Ebullience is not a Divine, and that’s the thing.
Janine: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Ebullience can’t have a conversation. Ebullience is like, a child bouncing around breaking things. That’s not what Integrity wants, you know? Integrity wants someone a little more elegant than that, like Motion. Very elegant. A little more grown.
Ali: This is a Dust disrespect zone is all I am saying.
Austin: Damn.
Janine: I do feel like I’m probably ejecting pretty quickly if I can.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, I think that this is a Defy Danger. I think to like, pull Integrity away from this thing, it—which—
Janine: Ah, my best roll.
Austin: I can’t tell if you’re being sarcastic or not.
Janine: Sorry, it’s not even—it’s just a normal…
Austin: Okay. It’s just a normal roll.
[Ali laughs]
Janine: My worst roll—my best roll, quote unquote, is Talk.
Austin: Yeah, I think this is Defy—a Weather the Storm Defy to extract from this safely.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: So that’s 2d6—and you are—you are Divine, it is Divine, this is fine. So yeah, 2d6 plus…
Janine: Plus nothing?
Austin: Plus nothing.
Janine: Hmm….. 11!
Austin: That’s an 11. Thisbe on a roll.
Janine: I’m in control of Integrity.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: You are.
Janine: I have the most integrity, and it respects me.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: I am a good Integrity mom.
Sylvi: Integrity rides with Thisbe.
Austin: Integrity rides with Thisbe.
Ali: Integrity rides with Thisbe.
Janine: I’m nurturing its trust.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: I have to—it’s so insecure, and it just needed a big robot to be like, “No, I got this.”
Sylvi: Many such cases.
Austin: “I got this.” Yeah, yeah.
[Janine laughs]
Austin: Big spoon Thisbe, small spoon Integrity, yeah, for sure.
Sylvi: [chuckles] How do you small spoon your spine? I guess it’s the horns now.
[Janine laughs]
Austin: It’s the horns, it’s the horns, yeah.
Sylvi: A little easier, I guess.
Austin: I guess.
Sylvi: You kinda curl up like a cat.
Austin: You’re able to extract safely from the Jury and hop down. It’s bad in there, though. You get the sense that that machine is kind of cursed, you know? And—
Janine: [sarcastic] No, really?
Landing
[1:57:15]
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh, and Jesset and Brnine, you’re able to, you know, extract safely at this point from this thing. But—and I’m gonna do a little match cut here—there are ships descending from space. I set up already that Lander One, the Whitestar flagship, was descending from space to land again. Well, so are Landers Two, Three, Four, and Five. Or I think Four may have been blown up during the last defensive that they did, but they are all descending because if they don’t descend, they will just explode, if they don’t have a controlled descent in this moment. As I set up during the little Twilight Mirage and Kalmeria interlude.
And so there is one landing here, and Eclectic, I hate to make this “Eclectic has to escape a place” again, but the fucking Kesh military is landing just at the base of the big bridge that you’ve been escaping down. Huge military vessel, this is your getting whatever—“making your world more complicated for yourself” complicator things.
Keith: Mhm, mhm. I forgot about that, but I’m in.
Austin: Lander One, Lucia Whitestar’s own flagship, is landing here, and over handheld loudspeakers, the Kesh folks are all, like, “Everyone remain calm and wait to be counted.” And they are like, taking control of the situation and turning this area into a Kesh base immediately, you know? They’re, like, deploying modular walls and putting up, like, you know, camp—basically a big military camp around the descended ship.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: And you are fucking surrounded by, you know, thousands of Kesh soldiers instantly as this force lands.
Keith: Mhm, mhm.
Austin: What do you do? Yeah, they’re not—you don’t have—what do you have? You have Overwhelmed.
Keith: I have Overwhelmed, yeah.
Austin: But that’s it, which is tied to Opposition.
Keith: This is a little overwhelming.
Austin: This is also overwhelming, sure.
Keith: Let’s see. You know, I’m gonna try to blend in.
Austin: Yeah. You just gonna try to do the classic “I belong here, I’m just a regular guy”?
Keith: I belong here, I’ve got a nametag, I’ve got a—I find a broom or something, I’m like—
Austin: Can I ask how you’re feeling about Figure dying?
Keith: Uh, confused.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: Like, overwhelmed.
Austin: Overwhelmed, yeah, okay, that makes sense.
Keith: What is—the visual on that is…
Austin: Yeah, that’s a great point, right?
Keith: Because like, do I know that Figure’s dead?
Austin: You know that the—it seemed like the light went out in their eyes, right?
Keith: Sure.
Austin: Or in them. The Russian sage all wilted and fell, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: And then they walked like a machine to the side of the Divine Future masquerading as Gur Sevraq.
Keith: Yeah. I think—
Austin: And you reached out to Gur magically, and could not—
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: And Gur was brought in, and you felt that Figure had left us, right?
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Figure was mag—was insofar as we keep talking about the dead and ghosts and such, you could tell that Figure’s body was effectively empty, was effectively being puppeted, you know?
Keith: Okay, I guess I know that there’s no wiggle room, and I suspect that Eclectic knows that, but I still think that there’s enough—there’s enough ambiguity there in, like, the actual knowledge that Eclectic has [Austin: Yeah.] to like, not—to be able to not just dwell on that.
Austin: Yeah, that makes sense.
Keith: To just be like, “I gotta get out of here.”
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I gotcha. Cool.
Keith: So that’s how I feel.
Austin: Okay. Monkey See, Monkey Do. Is that what you’re using here?
Keith: Uh…
Austin: Gaining advantage when attempting to hide in plain sight?
Keith: Yes. Yeah.
Austin: Alright. That is a 3d6 plus—what are we calling this? What are you—
Keith: 2? Defy?
Austin: Yeah, you’re just trying to like, keep your head down, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. Let’s call it that.
Keith: Alright, so—
Austin: Take highest.
Keith: Yeah, 3d6 plus 2.
Austin: Yeah. And you’re trying to get out from their kind of net, presumably, like where they’re—
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: They’re very clearly going to be like, we want to know who everybody here is, you know? We’re gonna check everybody in, we’re gonna keep you all in probably a cage until your backgrounds are all cleared. This was—
Keith: That’s a 9.
Austin: Oh, with advantage, with advantage. Okay, yeah, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. “When you get a 7 to 9, you succeed, but at some cost: it’ll keep you occupied longer than you thought, the Director will ask you to make a difficult choice, or you’ll burn a point of Spotlight as you take dramatic action.” I mostly think this will take you longer than you thought.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: I think that that’s just true, that like, you have to wait for the right opportunity, you do have to go through some of their bullshit, you know, [Keith: Mhm.] “Okay, you’re in group C, stay with group C,” and you’re like, well, fuck, group C’s not near a place I can get out of easily. But eventually you’re gonna be able to find a way to slip out and into the wilderness and maybe find one of their combustion cars to drive away. Like, maybe they have—
Keith: Sure.
Austin: A thing I keep thinking about with Lucia is Lucia is someone who doesn’t want to be—Lucia is someone who doesn’t want to totally win her, you know, her own legacy on her father’s name. Her father, as a reminder, is Cynosure Whitestar-Kesh, the Princept, but also you don’t let the Princept’s kid go to the front lines without also having, like, [Keith: Yeah] extra hardened, you know, defensive capabilities and extra escape vehicles and—
Keith: Yeah, I remember when they sent the fucking prince to Iraq.
Austin: Yeah, yes, yes. Exactly, right? You can say all that—as much as you want that it’s just the same as any other grunt, but come on.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Austin: Come on. And so yeah, I think there are some like, Perennial Wave-resistant vehicles, you know? Some stuff that like, runs on raw mechanics, raw mechanism, no computer shit at all, that you’re able to find. An old, like, army jeep type beat, you know?
Keith: Mhm, mhm.
Austin: And use that to escape. But it’s gonna take you a little longer than ideal.
Keith: Do I get to—do I have to hotwire it?
Austin: Yeah, I think so, right? Like, you have to—is this a trick Leap taught you, how to deal with these old vehicles?
Keith: Fuck. I’ve only ever heard it described. [laughs]
Austin: So you have to, like—[laughs] yeah. Like, “Okay, I think I just cut the—”
Keith: I’m learning on the job.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Great.
Keith: Yeah. “I cut this wire, and this panel, and then I gotta touch this to the [mimics wires sparking] zzzt! No, not this one.”
Austin: Not that, not that, yeah, mhm. The wipers come on, you know?
Keith: Yeah. It starts spraying liquid everywhere.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: God. That’s great. And then, yeah. Meanwhile, over on the other side, it is time to fucking bug out, because the Kesh military is landing everywhere around you, you know? Just outside of this place. It’s time to go.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Brnine, do you tell Cori to use the flare to get the Blue Channel here, or do you…
Sylvi: Honestly, I don’t know if Brnine would need to once Kesh military starts landing.
Austin: Well, just that the—because, again, the thing being that you don’t know that Brnine told Hunting about the Blue Channel, you know?
Sylvi: Right.
Ali: Right, but Cori would be like, “Oh, my phone doesn’t work,” and could… parse that herself, right?
Austin: Is the policy on the Blue Channel “if our phones don’t work, look for the flare”?
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: I guess it’s more, have we used flares before as signals in the past?
Austin: That’s what I’m asking, yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: As opposed to, is it, you know, when there’s no reception, set up a flare?
Austin: Right.
Keith: RIght, ’cause the flare conversation had to go through Asepsis.
Austin: That’s what I mean, yes.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Brnine—Cori did not hear that conversation.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Right, right, right. Yeah. Um… Yeah, I—I mean, I’m willing to have that conversation, obviously. I don’t know what this, like, moment post this thing happening looks like, um… I—
Austin: Yeah, I mean it’s—yeah, go ahead.
Ali: I was just gonna say I really want to roll a [chuckles] Weather the Storm or something.
Austin: Uh-huh. You’re really trying to die here.
Ali: I really am. [laughs]
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: That’s how it goes sometimes, though.
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Austin: I tried to set you up, you know?
Ali: I know. Well, I—when I did the Selfless thing, I thought immediate—there would be a Weather the Storm immediately after that, and instead that’s not how that moment went, but, um…
Austin: Uh-huh.
Ali: Yeah, I don’t know how we’re communic—I don’t know where anyone is in this scene, to be completely honest. [chuckles]
Austin: You’re all where you are on the map right now.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Which is close, right?
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: In fact, Thisbe’s closer, because Thisbe just slammed the hamburger on that thing on the mech you’re on.
Ali: Right.
Austin: So you’re all here, you’re all in the—you’re all here. Everyone’s close, everyone can be as close as they want to be, Kesh forces are landing outside the, like, near the arena, in the arena, you know? I’ll drop some spaceships down so that you know where they are, you know?
[Ali hums]
Austin: They’re bigger than this, because they’re big spaceships. So yeah, they are showing up and it is time to go. Cori, you pop the flare. Blue Channel is gonna come in over the eastern side, I guess, presumably, and you’re gonna have to get there. You’re gonna have to get out of this place. Or, I guess, what—how does Hunting work? What’s Hunting’s play here?
Ali: Um… I don’t know, probably not a good one. I think the ship showing up makes it worse.
Keith: Wow.
Dre: Damn.
Janine: What the fuck? [laughs]
Ali: No—[laughs]
Austin: So fucked up.
Ali: Well, just like, I don’t know—like, the scene should be overwhelming, is all I can…
Austin: Yeah, I mean, I think that that’s true. The sky is a weird kaleidoscope now, right?
[Keith hums]
Ali: Right.
Austin: Like, all of your tech is messed up. There are Kesh troops descending all around you. You know, people are running around with guns, people are yelling and screaming. I think part of what just happens is a lot of the people who work here, like, in this moment, the front doors of this place open up as people who think, “Oh, there’s something wrong with the stadium,” have begun running towards the campus thinking it’s safer, only to see the final moments of a fight between a mech and a big silver slime ball, and then the Kesh ships all descend, and soldiers are rolling out all over the place.
Yeah, it’s—it’s time to fucking get out of here. And yeah, I think that we probably do need a roll for Hunting, probably a Crew roll again, to try to land this ship safely, and you know, get—everybody has to then probably roll to get to it safely, you know? I think that’s probably a set of two rolls for everybody. One of them is—or it’s one roll, it’s Crew for Hunting landing safely despite all of the incoming threats, and then two, it is y’all each rolling, or as a group roll rolling, to get there safely.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: So, Hunting roll. That’s Crew, that’s you.
Ali: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Give me that roll. That is—
Ali: 2d6 plus 3, right?
Austin: 2d6 plus 3, this is, I think, Defy Danger probably.
Ali: [laughs] Wait, I—
[Dre and Sylvi laugh]
Austin: Plus 3? And you got a 6?
Ali: [laughing] Uh-huh.
Austin: That’s not the lowest it could go.
Sylvi: Roll20 heard what—yeah.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah. Roll20 heard.
Dre: It’s manifesting.
Ali: That’s so funny. I could give Hunting, like, advantage, I guess, but, um…
Austin: What’s so funny here is, like, what if Hunting dies, but you don’t? What if the ship blows up?
[Dre groans]
Janine: Oh my god.
[Ali sighs]
Austin: I mean, at zero—you failed this roll. What’s—what goes wrong here? I mean, it’s all the shit I set up. It’s these other Kesh ships are coming in and see the Blue Channel coming in. You know, Hunting has been waiting for this flare to go up.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: You said 15 minutes ago or whatever, “when the flare goes up,” and Hunting’s like, “Alright, I’m waiting for the flare, any second now,” and then the flare didn’t go up, and the flare didn’t go up, and the flare didn’t go up, and then finally the flare went up, and Hunting is like, “Alright, we have to go now, full speed.” Zoom, goes overhead, you know? And flies over. Midnite’s out there somewhere, right, with her mech just offscreen also. Flies over Midnite, gets here, and like, by the time Hunting is here, the Kesh ships are descending and are, like, opening fire with whatever they—whatever systems still work. And are going to—are going to hit the ship bad, you know, they are equally matched ships, effectively. I guess maybe not in this moment, because Asepsis has protected the Blue Channel more.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: I think each of these ships probably has a Risk or two on it, or a Peril or two on it, but the—but this is—it’s gonna get hit bad. Brnine—
Janine: Wait, could one of us not help Brnine to make that better?
Austin: Yes, one of you could help Brnine. Brnine could also use Selfless…
[Ali laughs]
Dre: Force Brnine to live!
Janine: Uh-huh, okay. I see, I see.
Austin: To put themself in peril to attempt something uncanny, superhuman, or unbelievable.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: Or sorry, to completely defend another from one source of incoming harm.
Ali: Sure.
Austin: But I don’t know how you would do that, frankly.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: In this scenario.
Dre: Jump in front of the missile.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Mhm. Also, I actually don’t think you could help—I don’t know, you’d have to tell me how you’re helping in this scenario, is what I’d want to know. Because the threat is so—it’s so hard to communicate, because communications are down. Right? And it’s happening on the way in, you know?
Ali: Right. Um… Yeah, I have this Tactical Genius Hold, but it would be giving it to me to give to Hunting, which I can’t do.
Austin: It’s not even Hunting. You’re doing the roll with Crew, right?
Ali: Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right, exactly, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Ali: I guess it’s just a failed roll. Oh, I get a point of Spotlight.
Austin: Yeah. Again, if someone has ideas for—you have Spotlight and level up actually, right?
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: You could—if you could tell me how you’re helping this situation, which again, is like, Hunting is trying to get here but is being shot at on the way here, you know?
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: Which is the thing that’s tough.
Dre: Isn’t there a thing you can do with a roll when you level up?
Austin: When you level up, you can—when you level up, you get a—if you take a move, you can use the move with advantage, I believe.
Dre: Okay.
Ali: Ohh.
Austin: But that’s a different thing than what this is, because this is leveling up from the failure, you know?
Ali: Okay, yeah. Uh-huh.
The Blue Channel
[2:12:24]
Austin: And maybe the—and actually maybe the failure isn’t—the failure might not be oh, I—like, truly—[chuckles] this is so metagame-y, right? But it’s like, we can have this outcome be anything we want here. The failure isn’t necessarily, oh, Hunting got shot and died, or the ship blew up. The failure here is you didn’t get what you wanted, which was Hunting landing safely nearby. We could have Hunting have to land offscreen and now you have to run further away. We could have Hunting crash into Ebullience, and free Ebullience.
Ali: Mhm.
Like, the narrative here is kind of up for grabs, and I will say I have different—I am having a moment where players have different flags flying right now, [Ali laughs] and so I am trying to balance the Brnine wants to be in excessive threat, under excessive threat, with I think Thisbe and Cori want to save the day and get the fuck out of here.
Ali: Sure. Okay.
Austin: So I’m curious where people are on this.
Keith: I’d just ignore Ali.
[Sylvi and Ali laugh]
Austin: I see. Gotcha.
Keith: I’d just ignore that.
Austin: Yeah. Uh-huh. That’s fair.
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Ali: Which is a fair response.
Keith: Dre already died, come on.
Austin: Oh, you know, I think the actual—the actual funniest thing to happen here is for me to look more at all of the things that I can do, maybe. Okay, well, first of all, I can finish ticking up that 8-step clock, that’s done, that was the Twilight Mirage bombs going off, so that’s good. Da-da-da…
Dre: Mirage bombs.
Austin: Looking at my other shit here. Fake Gur Sevraq gets up to some shit, that’s—well, that’s, yeah, uh-huh.
Dre: Sure did.
Austin: Yeah, sure did.
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: I think—I think the thing that’s going to happen is: crash lands through the building E, Engineers, and like, literally crashes through it. The Millennium Break—not the Millennium Break—the Blue Channel takes some damage here, but more importantly, this—one building, one of the ones you didn’t go into, building E, is now like open to open air, and crawling out of it, like a stream of Terminators, are a bunch of Motion Delegates. So it has gotten harder to escape, it’s what happened here.
The Motion Delegates that were being worked on there have now been freed and—’cause, I guess that’s—I’ll just say this out loud. If you’d gone into building E, there was more Motion stuff there, but less weird super sci—I mean, that’s all weird super science too, but regular engineers are working on the Motion project. That’s everywhere now, right? Whereas Exanceaster’s pet projects were all in building C. And so here, a bunch of these Terminator-like Motion Delegates begin spilling out of this place. You know, dozens of them. And they are between you and the Blue Channel, and so it is going to be more difficult, simply, to get from where you are into the Blue Channel to safely extract.
That is the scenario that we are in. Oh, I get to use these fun—I get to use these guys again. These guys are fun. This little group of minions. They’re not literally minions, but you know.
Dre: Aww.
Keith: By “they’re not literally minions”, you mean they’re not literally the class of enemy that we have had called minions?
Austin: Oh, I guess they are actually that.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: They are actually that, but there’s a bunch of them and they’re in a squad. I mean they’re not literally the—
Dre: Dreamworks Pictures…
Keith: Dreamworks banana guys.
Austin: Right, the Dreamworks Pictures banana guys, yeah, yeah, yeah. They’re not them.
Dre: [imitating Dreamworks Minion] Banana.
Janine: No, we reclaimed minion. We successfully reclaimed minion.
Keith: We successfully reclaimed minion.
Austin: Oh, I guess, right, and so they’re not that type of minion, either.
Janine: They don’t exist anymore.
Austin: They’re not that type of minion either. They’re not the type of minion from—that are specifically tied to the Five Afflictions, either.
Keith: Right.
Austin: So, they’re just—
Keith: A lot of minion definitions floating around.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, we’re a very minion-forward podcast.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: What do you do as a group to try to get past these folks and onto your ship and out of here? Are you just charging forward, are you laying down some covering fire? I think Jesset, you know, is still in the mech and can kind of take the lead and take some hits, but you know. There’s a limit.
Ali: Oh, cover fire might be smarter than just running.
Austin: Yeah, Brnine, you want to stay back and lay down some cover fire?
Ali: [laughs] I have Confidence to give—I have advantage to give out.
Austin: You do, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Just FYI.
Austin: But you actually don’t have that. You are not supervising allies from afar.
Ali: [chuckling] Oh, that’s really funny. Aw, well.
Austin: You’re in the trenches, yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: You’re too close up, you can’t see the forest for the trees or whatever. You know? Mhm. Someone’s gotta do something or else they’re gonna start moving in on you.
Janine: Yeah, I—I’m always like, every time something’s like, I just want to do something so that we don’t lose…
Austin: [cross] Someone’s gotta jump up and just do a thing, yep.
Janine: I have an idea. If someone else has an idea, go for it, but I have an idea to prevent a move.
Sylvi: You’ve been cooking this session, like, I’m…
[Ali laughs]
Austin: It’s true. It’s true.
Janine: There’s always time to stop. [chuckles] There’s always time to fuckin’ bomb horrendously.
Ali: Yeah, my first idea was run, and my second idea was, um…
Janine: Cry? Scream?
Ali: The—[laughs] the cover fire thing, so…
Dre: Shitting, farting, throwing up.
Ali: If you have an idea, I would love to hear it.
Janine: I was thinking about having Mow pop out from the Blue Channel and just, like, gorilla mode. You know?
Austin: Yeah. Just start slamming into guys. Sure. Mow’s here.
Janine: Yeah. Just start flinging them and chuckin’ ’em and stompin’ ’em and…
Austin: Like a Titanfall drop-in, yeah.
Janine: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Let’s do it. That’s fun.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: That sounds like Clash to me. Or, it’s actually weird. It’s almost like—it’s almost like Mow is providing you a—I mean, actually, I guess it’s Strike Decisively, because they are here one—or, no, actually there’s enough of them they are not. So yeah, it would be like—it would be like Exchange Blows, but with the group of Motion Delegates, which is interesting.
Keith: A small gang.
Austin: It’s a small gang, yeah. Mhm.
Janine: 2d6 plus 2?
Austin: 2d6 plus, uh, 2, yeah.
Janine: 11.
Austin: Ooh, that’s an 11. Thisbe continues to just crush it.
Sylvi: God damn.
Dre: Damn.
Austin: Mow rolls out of this thing and just starts going to fucking town, knocking through these things, bowling through them…
Sylvi: Mowing them down, you could say.
Austin: You could say that. You could say mowing them down.
Janine: Ohoho.
Sylvi: I wouldn’t, but you could say it.
Austin: But you could, yeah. Let me get Mow on this board.
Janine: Now I know it’s not for everyone, but I do highly recommend incorporating a Divine into your body.
Austin: Oh.
Ali: Ooh.
Sylvi: Hmm.
Austin: Yeah, the rolls seem to have gotten better, you know?
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Breaking through these guys.
Ali: Cori, no. Cori, no. [laughs]
[Sylvi, Janine, and Dre laugh] [Austin chuckles]
Janine: Cori kinda the OG in some ways, but.
Austin: In some ways, yeah.
[Dre hums]
Austin: There we go. Knocking a big open gap here. This big group of them has taken a Risk, which is Separated, let’s say, right? The Motion Delegates are spread out, they are a little less dangerous now, and I think they are probably, you know, you’re a small—you were already a small gang as a group, but they are like a big gang, so they had a little edge on you. Now they don’t have that edge. So if you make a run, you would just make the run. Now would be the time. You could do that as a group action if you want so that we can just get on board.
Ali: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Alright. I believe the way that that works is the lowest—the person with the lowest score, lowest Defy in this case, will roll, but if anybody has, like, abilities that would function here, you could all combine those abilities.
Janine: Well, my Defy is zero.
Austin: We have any negative 1 Defys out there?
Ali: Mm-mm.
Austin: I feel like no. I feel like everybody was like, we gotta get Defy. That’s the key one.
Sylvi: I mean, yeah.
Janine: Yeah, Thisbe’s been the one where it’s like, nah, Thisbe’s not good at Defy. I should probably—I could put some points in Defy these days.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: I think that was, like, my main stat when I first started, was Defy.
Janine: [laughs] Yeah.
Austin: That makes sense, that makes sense.
Janine: You’re like, plus 2 Defy.
Keith: Yeah, Phrygian was a 3 in Defy, and Eclectic is a 2.
Sylvi: God damn.
Dre: Damn.
Austin: A lot of defiance.
Keith: I was Defying all the time. That was like, the only thing I did.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: Very Keith-coded.
[Janine chuckles] [Austin and Keith hum]
Sylvi: Positive, positive. Just to be clear.
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I never even—it never even occurred to me to consider that an insult.
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: The “hmm” made me worried that you did, but you know. We’re good.
Austin: Here we go. Group moves: “When performing a group move, the person participating with the lowest relevant trait makes the roll, but anybody participating counts as doing so; thus, any bonuses to rolls they have like advantage or Hold they can spend can apply to the group move. A chain is only as strong as its weakest link, but good teamwork can shore up any weakness. Everybody participating in a group move may advance Gravity clocks with other participants if they have them.”
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: Which we did have a group move earlier and we didn’t do that, which we should retroactively do that.
Janine: Oh.
Austin: Who was that? That was the three of you, I think, when you were like, moving through a place as a group.
Ali: Oh, okay.
Austin: So I think Brnine, Thisbe, and Cori should all go up with their clocks once—
Keith: Uh, I think actually it was a group action between me and Figure—
Austin: Oh, was it? Oh, it totally was. Well, then…
Keith: We were sneaking past the guards, and I did actually increase my…
Austin: Oh, your Figure clock?
Keith: My Figure clock, which is now…
Janine: So it doesn’t help anyone.
Austin: Gone.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Okay, well, the three of you can do it now. Cori, Brnine, and Thisbe.
Ali: Mhm.
Janine: Hooray. 2d6?
Austin: 2d6 plus zero.
Janine: [laughs] Had to happen eventually.
Dre: Hell yeah, dude.
Austin: Bro.
Ali: Oh…
Janine: 5.
Austin: That’s a 5.
Janine: That’s a 5.
Austin: That’s a 5. Well, I’m gonna need everybody to take a Risk.
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Oh, fuck.
Keith: Including a certain someone?
Austin: Including a certain someone.
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Oh my goodness. Hey, Brnine, you got what you wanted.
Dre: This MF.
Austin: This MF.
Janine: [facetious] Actually, I did this on purpose, to help my friends.
[Austin, Ali, and Dre laugh]
Dre: That’s beautiful.
Austin: I think that the Risk is, you know, this is a similar one to being—it’s like, what’s another word for overwhelmed, but in a different way?
Janine: Disoriented?
Keith: Cornered.
Ali: I can’t even…
Austin: Not cornered, not disoriented, like, quite literally, like, physically overwhelmed, you know what I mean? Overrun, like, over, you know, you’re being surrounded is actually what I want. Everyone should take the Risk “Surrounded” as you move through here as the Delegates continue to pour out of this building and surround the Blue Channel. Hey, if you don’t have—if you don’t have room for a Risk on your sheet right now, I think you have to Bite the Dust.
Ali: [chuckles] Sure. 
Janine: Oh, no.
Ali: Uh-huh. [laughs]
Austin: “When you’re caught Defenseless or risk harm so severe you might Bite the Dust, roll plus Defy.” What’s your Defy, Brnine?
Janine: [sarcastic] I can’t believe this is happening again.
Ali: I have a plus 1 Defy.
Austin: Alright.
Ali: And I do just want to say that I did look—because I think I technically still have 1 Hold—
Austin: You do.
Ali: And I can’t do a—this is a group action, so I can’t do a retroactive help.
Austin: Yeah, you can’t help a group action. You’re already in it.
Ali: And the Confidence that I could spend to help Thisbe wouldn’t do anything here, because 1s to 6s is Confidence, right? Okay.
Austin: Yeah, there’s no—correct. Yeah.
Ali: So there’s just no way…
Austin: Yeah, you can’t—
Ali: Because I would do it here, but…
Austin: To help other people.
Ali: Right.
Austin: Of course. Of course you would.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Well, also, you couldn’t do that. You couldn’t give  Confidence to another person right now.
Keith: I could.
Ali: I could with the Asepsis thing.
Austin: No, you’re out. You’re at zero.
Keith: No, I’m at 1.
Ali: No, I still have the—
Austin: Oh, using Hold, using Hold, I see, I see.
Ali: Right, I still have my free Hold.
Austin: Right, I see. And Eclectic, yeah, you could, but there was no 1 here, right.
Ali: Mhm. So just everybody knows, just so everybody knows.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Ali: But I have a plus 1 Defy.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: 2d6 plus 1, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: Okay. [chuckles]
Keith: But I could give Confidence to the Bite the Dust roll.
Austin: You could, yes.
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: So try to roll 2s.
Dre: PVP, baby. [chuckles]
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: 2d6 plus 2. Or plus 1, rather. Well, you got a 9.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: “On a 7 to 9, retreat from the Sortie safely, or be put in peril.” Well, you’re kind of doing that now, right?
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: On a failure—this is not a failure, so we don’t need to go… “If you survive, you are changed by your defeat. As well as the above, choose one: deepen all of your hooks as you clutch your ideals tighter and tighter; loosen all of your hooks as you lose faith in that which drives you; take a burden as you are saddled with some lingering injury, duty, or obligation; or choose a new playbook—keep what moves you and the Director agree are truly part of your character, and discard the others. Replace them with the starting moves of your new playbook. You do not gain the starting equipment.”
Actually, I think, is that only on a—is that only on—I have to actually look in the book and read how that’s written out. I don’t know if that’s—if you do those things if you get a 7 to 9, or if you only do those things—yeah, that’s only if you failed, but then decided you’re not dead.
Ali: Oh.
Austin: So yeah, you just have to retreat from the Sortie safely or be put in peril. Sorry, Brnine, not today.
[Ali laughs]
Keith: But being put in peril, you just would roll another Bite the Dust.
Austin: Well, right. So, Brnine, you could insist that you were going to keep fighting here.
[Ali and Sylvi laugh]
Sylvi: [laughing] Oh my god.
Austin: You could say no, I am going to—’cause here’s the funny thing. You could—there’s an argument to be made here, right? That like, you want to run on board and get to the cockpit and be Brnine, be in the cockpit and be in charge, and you could do that if you Bite the Dust again and get a 10 or more.
Ali: Mhm.
Austin: Right? So you could make the case. I think it’s goofy, but you could make the case.
Ali: [laughs] Well, it just seems like it—this is just such a games thing, but like, for the mixed success to be “you retreat from the Sortie safely” when like, that’s the entire question of the scene….
Austin: Well, yes. You’re right.
Ali: You know what I mean? ’Cause like—
Austin: I do. I see what you’re saying.
Ali: There are situations where it’s like, “Oh, okay, they’re not dead, but they’re not here anymore,” you know?
Austin: Right, if this had happened when you were—if this had happened an hour into the session…
Ali: [laughs] Right.
Keith: Right.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: That would mean something.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Keith: This is just the 1 out of 10 chance where you happen to just be one thing from getting out anyway.
Ali: Right.
Keith: And that’s what part—that’s what’s—
Austin: And if we were playing XCOM, we’d all be like, phew. But we’re not playing XCOM.
[Ali laughs]
Keith: That’s the success part of partial success.
Austin: Right. Right, exactly. Yeah.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: Uh-huh. So you’re saying you want to be put in peril.
Ali: I—it’s so funny. I don’t want to keep doing this tonight if we… [laughs]
[Dre laughs]
Austin: I’m here for it. I think it’s funnier if you keep winning, [Ali laughs] and then Brnine is this person who can’t get out, right? Like, we talked about—we—
Keith: Why here, though?
Austin: I mean, because for the same—you could say that about Figure dying, right?
Keith: Well—
Austin: And in some ways it’s like, ’cause it happens. Sometimes you fucking get died—get died. Sometimes you get killed.
[Ali laughs]
Keith: Sometimes you get died.
Austin: On the way out.
Janine: Operant Figure get died.
Austin: [laughing] Operant Figure get died. Oh, no….
Dre: Ah… April Fool’s merch, coming soon.
Austin: Coming soon.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah, fuck  it. Give me it again.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Let’s see it. Let’s make it definitive. Because to me, it’s interesting if you live, [Ali laughs] and Brnine is like, is main character coded.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: Can’t fuckin’—you know what I mean? Like, oh my god, like, keeps getting away with it, as Figure said.
Ali: Right, like what’s wrong with me?
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: Right.
Ali: What is wrong with me?
Austin: Well, I think that that’s something you have to hold in your heart, is that, like—
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: You did everything—you were ineffective here in many ways, no offense.
Ali: True. Well…
Austin: And didn’t die, but…
Dre: But other people did.
Austin: But other people did for no—for seemingly luck, you know?
Janine: Yet again.
Austin: Yet again.
[Ali laughs]
Janine: Survivor’s guilt.
Austin: Yet again. 2d6 plus 1.
Ali: 2d6 plus 1.
Austin: There it is.
[Ali laughs]
Keith: Can I help with my Confidence?
Austin: Oh my god, you can give Confidence.
Dre: Hell yeah, do it! Do it!
[Ali laughs]
Keith: This is my last one. This is my last one.
Austin: Which is meaningful.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You can turn that 1 into a 6, which would make this an 11.
Dre: Fuck yeah, dude. [chuckles]
Sylvi: Yeah, do it.
Keith: I’ve made up for being so sparing with B-Plot moves in the past today.
Austin: In the past, yeah. This is the session. Though, again, it would put you into trouble somehow. I want to make that mean something.
Keith: Yeah, sure.
Austin: What happens to you that complicates things?
Keith: Crash into the window of this facility and all the sudden there’s…
[Ali laughs]
Austin: But like, are you—are you captured? What does real complication look like for you? For Eclectic at this moment?
Keith: Um… I’m just—like, the thing is, like, the worst thing that could happen to Eclectic is to, like, make it here while this is still going down.
Austin: Just to like show up here and more Kesh people are here.
Keith: Yeah. The other thing is like, we cut back to before and it’s like, ah, I got fucking caught, or there—
Austin: You got caught, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Or like, you know, filmed or something.
Austin: Thisbe in the chat says “what if Eclectic died”.
[Ali and Sylvi laugh]
Sylvi: No!
Austin: Yeah, filmed is interesting. If you get, like, seen and tied to this in some way, you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You know, this person blew up these bombs, and then tried to get away. And caused an earthquake at the temple.
Keith: And then is headed towards the Lone Marble Group during…
Austin: The Lone Marble Group, right, during all this—
Keith: During a terrorist attack.
Austin: During a terrorist attack. They deployed this strange bio-weapon that destroyed a lot of our buildings and killed people, this weird silver orb that we thankfully—yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: But they brought the Divine to Palisade. I mean, they brought the Twilight Mirage to Palisade.
Austin: To Palisade.
Keith: Same thing.
Austin: Yeah. I mean, that’s still not—people—yeah, we’ll see how people react to that as everything gets weird. So yeah, sorry, you live, Brnine. That 1 becomes a 6.
Ali: Sure. It does indeed.
Austin: And do you know what happens?
Keith: Full success. [shouting] Full success! You clear a Peril!
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Actually, you don’t clear a Peril.
Keith: Oh, fuck.
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: You only clear a Risk.
Keith: Oh, okay. What happens.
Austin: But you just live with three Perils.
Keith: You just live with three Perils.
Austin: Because I didn’t realize you were all—you’re totally Peril’d up. Jesus.
[Sylvi snickers]
Dre: Damn.
Keith: Yeah, because we replaced that one Risk with a Peril, like, three hours ago.
Austin: Yeah, mhm.
[Ali laughs]
Dre: Triple Peril’d up.
Austin: But, you know, the funny thing here is you do get onto the Carrier, which means you get another Risk. You’re no longer Defenseless.
Ali: Ohh.
Austin: Sorry. You’re safe on board.
Ali: I’m good.
Sylvi: [chuckles] You’re walking in and your, like, health regen starts is, like, how this is to me.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: [mimics health meter charging] Doo-doo-doo-doo-doo! Yeah, uh-huh.
Dre: Yeah, the fuckin’ Halo noise. [mimics health meter charging]
Austin: The Halo noise, yep, uh-huh.
Closing
[2:31:24]
Austin: Alright, you get aboard the Blue Channel. The Blue Channel plays the end of the XCOM mission cutscene of flying away safely. I don’t—I don’t know.
[someone snickers]
Austin: I’m looking—what i’m looking at is, you know, things went so off the rails here that we didn’t get to some stuff that you’d earned with Plan and Prepare, but I think that’s fine. Around things like “risky opportunity to secure an outcome from a faction”.
[Ali hums]
Austin: Which, I don’t know, you kept Jesset alive. I came into this thinking Jesset might die here, so maybe you’ve secured some sort of out—I guess you kind of did, in a way. One of the things that you did was, you know, the way this all played out, you kept them from upgrading their baseline models to Tier 4, which is huge. Right? You destroyed all of the—Jesset destroyed all of the prototype models. There’s a bunch of things here that are hidden that are fucking cool, but like, I’ll just drop these on the token layer.
Keith: Do you think—
Austin: There’s a thing called an Anvil, there’s a thing called a Roundtable, there’s another one called—Occam was here, by the way, but just never showed up onscreen.
[someone scoffs]
Keith: Wow.
Austin: Occam Olio was gonna finally square off against—it was gonna be Occam versus—
Keith: Jesset?
Austin: Jesset, yeah, in the finals. It was gonna be fun, but you know. Sometimes it happens like that.
Keith: Is keeping Jesset alive enough to have—because Brnine really put—
Austin: I think so.
Keith: That’s enough to get the faction outcome from Jade Kill?
Austin: It’s either the faction—well, no, Jesset is the other one.
Keith: Oh.
Ali: Grey Pond.
Austin: Jesset’s Grey Pond, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Grey Pond, right, right.
Dre: Oh, right.
Keith: Hey, untap two factions.
Austin: Untap two factions.
Keith: We’ve got two tapped factions, so there we go.
Austin: Yeah, boom. So there we go. I believe that that’s enough.
Keith: Violet Cove untapped for the first time in—in real life, eight months.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Truly, maybe. I think it was untapped once before, but yeah.
Keith: I think that we brought it down from, like, 2 Grip to 1 Grip but it never—or, to no Grip—
Austin: But never untapped, yeah.
Keith: But it was never untapped.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: I could be wrong.
Austin: So yeah, I’ll give you that. I think that that makes sense, and—and then the other one of untap a faction of your choice, just, there isn’t anything untapped, so we’re fine. Or anything tapped, so we’re good.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: I feel like that’s enough. The Blue Channel flies away into Mirage skies. I think everyone onboard is like, you know, truly chaos mode at this point. So wait, what did we—oh yeah, we decided that, Eclectic, you are going to be on the front page of the newspaper tomorrow as being, like, “Former security officer involved, question mark?”
Keith: Any Brnine footage showing up?
Austin: Sure, yeah. Yeah.
Keith: Some great footage.
Austin: I think that makes sense.
Keith: Sell it to the newspapers.
Janine: Local terrorist captain still alive.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah. But the other thing—you know, if I could kind of like, try to get my head around everything that’s just happened a little bit, which, none of which I was really planning for in the big sense—the world is just different instantly, right? You know, we—the Bilateral Intercession is just fundamentally on the back foot suddenly, because they are surrounded by eight planets of people who don’t like them. Right?
I’m gonna Grip up everything once. Except for Arbitrage. Arbitrage has fallen. Arbitrage left. Arbitrage fuckin’ is gone. Right? It’s not fallen, it’s just—it was never really here, was it? You know? It was—this whole thing was a ploy to get some stuff off the ground, it’s gotten its stuff off the ground. It’s—it has revealed that it was never really truly part of the Frontier Syndicate. A thing you could find here, a thing that would have been in that building that Jesset—or that, sorry, Hunting crashed into, was that one of Exanceaster March’s plans was to get Motion in contract to Arbitrage. That was one of the—
Sylvi: Good god.
Austin: —how do we keep track of this bomb? That was a mistake. That would have been a stupid thing to do, right?
Keith: Yeah. What if we give this super bomb its own bomb?
Austin: [chuckling] Exactly. So everything, I think, just takes a hold—or takes—loses Grip on itself, you know, loses 1 Grip. All of the Pillars, by simply being in the Twilight Mirage now, you are simply reinforced. You are—no one has to leave the Mirage to back you up anymore, right? And so that’s instantly a big deal. And then I’m gonna give an extra Hold on the Temple for everything that happened there, and I’m gonna give 2 on Lone Marble Group. So it is now—it is not fallen, but it is Defenseless. You know, the marble is gone. All that research that they did still exists, there is the marble inside of the—the tiny little bit of Ebullience left inside of the generator, and there’s the bit inside Thisbe, but that is it, right? So they are not fallen yet, but very close. So—
Keith: Remember, like, 18 episodes ago when we hadn’t—
Austin: I do.
Keith: —gotten a single fallen Pillar?
Austin: I do remember. And here we are.
Keith: Here we are.
Austin: Look at us.
Keith: Look at us.
Austin: So, it’s all coming together. I think the thing to think about is like, the Bilats are on their back foot here, but the world beyond is turning fast. There is a, you know, again, the way that we talked about it was like, there are five thousand years outside the Twilight Mirage, and one—and five hundred inside. And that is a big jump, and so, you know, think about—when we pick up, it will have been a week or two in here. It will have been much longer out there. We are—the setting of the Divine Principality from here until the end is going to be time-jumpy, but not for your characters, which is fun.
Keith: It’ll be like 5 months? 2 weeks to 5 months? Something like that?
Austin: Yeah, something like that. I need to actually do that. What’s—how’s that work? A hundred—a hundred is—
Keith: It goes 10 to 1, so 2 weeks to 20 weeks.
Austin: It’s 10 to 1, so it’s 2 weeks to 20 weeks, yeah. Is over—it’s almost 5 months, yeah, exactly. You know. And that’s the time scale we’re in, so. Much to consider. Dre, I think you and I have an idea of who your new character is. Are you committed to that?
Dre: I…
Austin: Or do you want to sleep on it before we make a debut?
Dre: I’m like 95%.
Austin: Alright, let’s sleep on it, and then during downtime we can make a debut. That sounds fun to me. Any final—I mean, Eclectic, everybody’s here on board. Presumably you get safely picked up by the Blue Channel at this point, along with Midnite. How do you explain that Figure isn’t here with you? Let’s get everybody in a room. Blue Channel is cloaked, set down somewhere. Twilight Mirage is above.
Sylvi: I’m, like, excitedly talking about how I lied to that robot to everybody before Eclectic walks in.
[Ali chuckles]
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Janine: [chuckling] Which is not the flex Cori thinks it is, and yet the lie comes out.
Sylvi: No, not at all, but she’s like, “I did espionage! I’m a spy now!”
Austin: Yeah. Also, we should clear something up here, because we talked about, Cori, the first time you’ve ever connected to the real Devotion.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: But you’re from the Twilight Mirage. It’s just that they didn’t—you didn’t have—you weren’t in, like, connected directly to Devotion until you were deployed here, right?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Because otherwise you would have felt that previously. The first time they let you feel Devotion’s connection to you was the first time they put a gun in your hand. Right? Like…
Sylvi: Well, yeah.
Austin: And that was not—
Sylvi: And she was like 13.
Austin: Right, exactly. But like, that’s on deployment here.
Sylvi: Uh-huh.
Austin: So not, you know, or on the way out of it so that they were always interceding. It’s only now that you’ve reconnected directly to the Mirage in this big traumatic—and dramatic—way that that connection was allowed.
Sylvi: Mhm.
Austin: But I didn’t want to—I didn’t want people to forget that you’re from the Twilight Mirage originally.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: So you’re like, closer to home, you know? Which is interesting.
Sylvi: Hm.
Austin: Yeah, you have all those siblings. You’ve got another parent out here somewhere.
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Dre: Oh.
Austin: Yeah. Um… so yeah. I think Hunting will just straight up ask.
Austin (as Hunting): Where’s Figure?
Keith (as Eclectic): Uh… Figure’s not coming back, I don’t think.
Sylvi (as Cori): What? Why?
Keith (as Eclectic): We were… following Gur, the fake Gur, and we got past the guards, and we opened his door, and it was this big gold orb that looked like what Leap said was the Divine Future, and… Figure just was not there. Was gone, was wilted, and went and just stood by Future, and I tried to reach out to Gur and I couldn’t, and I—the whole place started shaking and I just had to get out and I—you know. I just left.
Austin (as Hunting): You’re saying Figure betrayed us.
Keith (as Eclectic): No. I mean, I don’t know. I don’t… I don’t know what happened. It was… It happened in a second, but something—something on them, something about them changed. They were… They didn’t, you know, reveal their plan or twirl a mustache, they just looked different and acted different and didn’t say anything and…
Ali (as Brnine): You just left?
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah, the whole place was coming down.
Ali (as Brnine): [chuckles dryly] Yeah.
Janine (as Thisbe): I understand. Figure was lost.
Keith (as Eclectic): Yeah.
Janine (as Thisbe): You could not change that. Figure would not have betrayed us.
Janine: Sorry.
Janine (as Thisbe): Operant Figure was lost. Operant Figure would not have betrayed us.
Sylvi: Cori has—
Janine (as Thisbe): If you had stayed, you would have been lost, too.
Sylvi: Cori has found the nearest chair and is just sitting down and sort of staring into space.
Austin: Midnite comes in and is like,
Austin (as Midnite): Hey, that Gur is on TV.
Austin: And is already in the middle of a little sermon, which I think will have been the intro to this arc, but decontextualized, and what he is saying, with Figure standing next to him,
Austin (as Gur Sevraq): You think what comes next will be a grand revisioning. It will not be. I have seen the future, and if Millennium Break is allowed to bring us to it, it will be a shattered aquarium. It will be scattershot violence. It will be the all-at-once thawing of a great glacier, and the flood that comes after. It will be blood, all of the time. That will not be better than the Divine Principality.
You think you are prepared to be the bloody hand that turns the wheel. No one is prepared for that. It is not like a wheel. It is not the rise and fall of empires. It is not a cycle of justice and tyranny. What comes next will simply be unending, internecine conflict between uncountable fragments across a world we no longer know. It will be a galactic class of warlords, it will be starvation, it will be daily terror.
To our new neighbors, this is what we seek to be a bulwark against. We are coming home not to conquer, but to build. Our doors are open. Send your envoys. Send your theologians. We are eager to talk.
Austin: And so, the diplomacy begins. And so the Bilateral Intercession has been pushed into a corner, cut off from resupply, unstuck in time, and it finds itself increasingly desperate. For Gur Sevraq, that means it is time for diplomacy. We’ll find out what the rest of the Bilats are getting up to next time as we begin our turn towards the end of PALISADE. [chuckles]  Keith says, quoting the weird time.is quote today—
[Ali laughs]
Austin: [in Gur Sevraq’s voice] “Peace is more important than all justice, and peace was not made for the sake of justice, but justice for the sake of peace.”
[Sylvi exhales] [Dre groans]
Sylvi: Getting my hammer to beat Gur Sevraq to death.
[Austin and Ali laugh]
[music outro - “Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt]