PALISADE 58: Above the Earth Pt. 2
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Recap        1
Introduction        3
Game Intro [0:08:36]        10
Weapon [0:15:57]        14
Plan [0:32:32]        30
Leading the Sortie [0:55:32]        52
Cori’s Move [1:18:47]        78
Thisbe’s Move [1:25:14]        86
Levi’s Move [1:30:25]        91
Brnine’s Move [1:35:49]        97
Leap’s Moves [1:42:49]        104
Clocks Tick [2:05:38]        128
Recap
Austin: PALISADE is a show about empire, revolution, settler colonialism, politics, religion, war, and the many consequences thereof. For a full list of content warnings, please check the episode description.
[music intro - “Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Austin: You are here, on a beautiful beach, preparing for, hopefully, a final confrontation with the Divine Motion, a machine who, at the head of her undying army of thralls, could rightfully be called a necromancer. You have a few objectives. You have one main objective: stop Motion and the Pact from reaching the core. Stop them from hitting that power terminal on the right. They do that, it is bad news. Second secondary objective: Cas’alear wants to make that message that says, “Hey, it’s the end of the Perfect Millennium. I’m ending the Perfect Millennium, and guess what? I’m ending the Principality. There will not be a Princept anymore.” But I think we have to talk about this rest of this session as almost like being a downtime.
—
Janine: I am going to lead a Glide Through Currents scene. This time, I think it is maybe more like being in a space where, like, you feel the floor but you don’t see it. And there’s a lot of color. Does anyone show up, I guess, is my first question.
Keith: I have a retinue. I don’t know why they wouldn’t want to be.
Austin: Oh my god.
Keith: But if they’re not invited, they’re not invited.
Janine: If they’re rowdy, they’ll get kicked out.
Austin: Tell me about—
Keith: I have a list of names. Wilky Burkhard. [Austin laughs]
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: Theobold Martel. Susanna Martel. Beck Regula. Bashful Dissent. Casual Dissent. Stone Stone, she/her.
Austin: Uh-huh. 
Keith: Mattson Bonaccorso. Horatio Robottom. [Austin laughs] Montgomery “Monty” Gloss. Beautiful-Kick Alexandryah OctoberMalaise. And David Xanatos, he/him.
Austin: We can’t use him! He’s from Gargoyles!
—
Sylvi: I don’t, like, have the actual scene idea for it yet, but mechanically, I think Listening Post could work.
Austin: That makes sense.
Sylvia: Is this like, something that would give us like, the ETA of when the flagship is going to arrive?
Austin: It sure could.
Dre: Mm.
—
Ali: Um, I mean, this is easy for me. I can shift off of that and do a Somewhere Nearby.
Austin: Ooh, okay.
Janine: “Oh, you’re metal detecting? I can— yeah. Let’s go.”
Austin: “I can be a big metal detector.” Thisbe and Brnine walking the beach. Looking for old metal things.
Dre: Aw.
Sylvi: Aw.
—
Dre: This is a big, like, beach bonfire. And Levi and his boys are cooking everybody dinner.
Dre (as Levi): I think the closest thing I’ve got to a speech is that I think everyone here is here for a good enough reason that we don’t need a speech.
Austin: And I think Hunting says, like, quietly to you, is like,
Austin (as Hunting): Hey, I have some ideas for how we can— let me just—
Austin: You know, the Plan and Prepare happens in the dirt. You know? It happens with lines drawn in the sand.
[music ends]
Introduction
Austin: Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast focused on critical worldbuilding, smart characterization, and fun interaction between good friends. I am your host, Austin Walker. Joining me today, Ali Acampora.
Ali: Hi, my name is Ali. I think that you should go check out friendsatthetable.cash. We have a bunch of stuff over there, and I think you should go to notquitereal.bandcamp.com.
Austin: There we go. Andrew Lee Swan.
Dre: Hey. You can find me on Twitter at @swandre3000.
Austin: Keith Carberry.
Keith: Hi, you can find me on Twitter at @KeithJCarberry. You can find the let’s plays that I do at youtube.com/runbutton. We've also got more Shenmue 3 incoming at contentburger.biz, and last time, I think we talked about that Shenmue 1 we made public. That was sort of half true. We made the playlist public and then sort of hid the post to how to get to the playlist. [Sylvia and Janine laugh] So I've been sort of, uh…
Austin: On purpose?
Keith: No. Well, on purpose, because we were like, “Yeah, here’s the post on Patreon for free, where you can get the link to…”
Austin: I see. I see.
Keith: Because the alternative is to clutter up our YouTube channel with 60 10-year-old videos.
Austin: Mm, mm.
Keith: Which is what I have decided now to do, is just every couple of days I'm just putting a new one out public. But of course, you could find the playlist. So, go to youtube.com. Watch Shenmue 1, and then pay us for Shenmue 2 and 3 at contenburger.biz.
Ali: Ooh.
Keith: It’s worth it.
Austin: [chuckles] You really delivered that. That was, yeah. 
Keith: Yep.
Austin: [imitating] “It’s worth it.”
Keith: That’s been our tagline for years.
Austin: Ohh.
Sylvia: Yeah, it feels like you should have had a phone number to say at the end there.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Call 1-800-RUN-BUTTON.
Keith: Just read out my actual phone number.
Austin: No.
Keith: 617…
Austin: No! [Sylvia laughs] Stop it. Also joining us…where was I, Keith? Janine Hawkins.
Janine: Hi, I'm Janine. I’m at @bleatingheart on some places. [click] If you want to know what we're up— sorry, I closed a marker while I was talking.
Sylvia: It sounded like you snapped.
Janine: And that’s gotta—
Austin: Yeah, I was like, “Damn, putting that punctuation on it.” [Janine laughs] Letting ‘em know.
Janine: If you want to know what we are up to week-to-week, you should follow us on Patreon. No money required. You will get a newsletter every Tuesday morning at 10 a.m. Eastern…Standard Time. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Austin: Mm.
Janine: Or whatever.
Sylvia: Just do what I do and forget the second word whenever you're— just say Eastern Time, and people won't bat an eye.
Keith: Just say Eastern, yeah. [faux combative tone] During Daylight Savings, we don't post these, so don't look. [Ali snorts]
Janine: I can never tell which one is during and which one is not during.
Sylvia: Same.
Keith: Daylight is in the Fall.
Sylvia: Sure.
Janine: Okay.
Keith: Daylight Savings is in the Fall.
Janine: I believe you. We have— yeah, it’s a thing every week. Every week, I put a bunch of references in it. I keep thinking, like, we should have, like, a little prize for someone who can say where every reference is from, 'cause…
Austin: Hmm.
Janine: But I mean, I know where— every reference is from the thing I'm talking about.
Austin: Right.
Janine: So that’s not really what I mean. But like a— I don't know. It’s not a good idea. [Keith and Janine laugh] And there's a fun little image up top every week.
Austin: It’s true.
Janine: And it’s a fun time. Check it out.
Austin: It’s free. It’s free to get this newsletter, right?
Janine: And it’s free.
Austin: Yeah, you just sign up.
Janine: A hundo percent free.
Austin: And if you sign up on the Patreon with a free account, I think that also makes it maybe easier—maybe this isn't true—makes it easier to listen to all of Bluff City, 'cause it’s on our Patreon feed but, like, you can't get that without a Patreon account? It may be the case that you also need to give us money to get the RSS feed, though. I'm not 100% sure, so I take it all back. Anyway.
Keith: Worth exploring. [Janine laughs]
Austin: Yeah, go find out. It’s a little game.
Keith: Go find out.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. Uh, okay.
Sylvia: Okay? 
Austin: Sylvi. [Sylvia and Keith laugh] Bullet. Hi.
Sylvia: Hey, I'm Sylvia. You can find me everywhere at @SYLVIBULLET. It’s spelled without the E, Taking Back Sunday style. 
Austin: Taking Back Sunday style. 
Sylvia: You can also listen to Media Club Plus. It’s a Hunter × Hunter podcast that Dre, Keith, and I are on, but I'm the only one who mentioned it. [laughs quietly] It’s good. You should check it out. There's—
Janine: Also one other person.
Sylvia: Who else mentioned it? Am I…? Did I zone out?
Janine: No, one other person is on the show.
Dre: No, Jack’s on it.
Sylvia: Oh, Jack’s there too.
Austin: Jack’s on it.
Sylvia: I meant, like, here right now. Sorry.
Austin: You meant— right, yeah.
Janine: Okay. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: I was trying to be silly.
Keith: I was saving it.
Sylvia: For me.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Thank you.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Oh, I see what you're saying.
Sylvia: Aww. That’s very sweet. Yeah, you should go check it out. We're almost done recording Greed Island, so you want to catch up before we begin the big one, the Chimera Ant.
Keith: An episode just came out a half hour ago. Not from when you are listening to this, but from when we're recording.
Sylvia: Yeah, you gotta be careful.
Keith: Episode 22. And I think it’s the funniest, like, first three to five minutes that we've had on the show. [Sylvia laughs] So, even if you don't listen, just go listen to the first five minutes. It’s a riot.
Sylvia: Is that the most recent one we recorded?
Keith: It is the most recent one, yeah.
Sylvia: [amused] Yeah, okay, that tracks. [Dre laughs]
Ali: Can I say something that I found out recently that’s wild and an argument to catch up on Media Club Plus as soon as possible?
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: The— is it Chimera? Chimera Ant?
Austin: Chimera Ant. Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Ali: That arc was eight years being published.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: That’s crazy.
Keith: It’s about half of the runtime of the anime.
Dre: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Give or take, like, 10 episodes.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: So, if you want to hear about an epic saga…
Austin: It’s coming up.
Ali: You're running out of time.
Sylvia: Buzz buzz, baby. Bug city. [Keith and Ali laugh]
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: That’s their catchphrase.
Austin: More and more people are saying this.
Keith: That’s the ants’ catchphrase.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. 
Game Intro [0:08:36]
Austin: Okay. Today, we are kicking off, uh, a sortie. I was going to say the final sortie, but, you know. [Sylvia laughs] I'm planning on it being the final sortie—
Sylvia: We can't commit anymore.
Austin: But I won't make any fucking promises anymore.
Janine: Heard that before.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: We're going to give out audience trust issues.
Austin: That’s right. In Armour Astir, a game by Briar Sovereign, our goals today are to portray a world entrenched in conflict, to let the players make a difference, to connect the magic and the mundane, and to play to find out what happens. [typing] I should get our sheets up, because I only have up the Roll20. 
Dre: Oh, I should do that too.
Austin: Everybody else should make sure to hop into the Roll20 also, because we're doing Armour Astir, and Armour Astir, it turns out, it helps to have some maps and some sense of where things are. Even though it’s not, like, explicitly a sort of map tactical combat game, I do think…I do think I'm actually going to really quick just take a screenshot for myself of where things— what this screen looks like right now, ‘cause it’s very funny, 'cause there’s so much stuff that I have on the GM side that is not visible more broadly, and that at the end of this I'll show you what my screen looks like at the beginning of this. Uh, da-da-da-da-da. 
Okay. So, when we last played, we did everything in the downtime, up to the Plan and Prepare. You got a couple of bonus Hold that everyone should have marked down, and the next Lead a Sortie roll is going to be made with advantage, and here we are at the Lead a Sortie roll, which is: “When it’s time for action and you lead a sortie, decide who planned the mission and roll,” and then you roll plus Know if you're leading with wits and following a clever plan, you roll with Crew if it was somebody else aboard, or you roll with Defy if you're heading into danger blind. 
And I guess to kind of do that roll, we also have to just maybe say out loud what the plan, so to speak, is. The quick and dirty restatement of, I guess, of sort of objectives— let me just toss these on the screen directly. Primary Objective: prevent Motion and the Pact from reaching the core. Secondary Objective: defeat Motion, Present, and Commitment/Ekpyrosis; escort Cas’alear Rizah to the Wave Production and Control Servers and defend cas during the declaration of the end of the perfect Millennium; and destroy the three Portcullis Systems to prevent reinforcements from entering the field. 
Again, for the listener at home, there's kind of three scales of map on the screen right now. The bottom one is truly goofy, because it’s just the supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy and then a circle being like, “Uh, I guess we're over here.” And then we have a slightly more zoomed in one where you can see the giant Portcullis gates, which are slowly coming online. As a reminder, one of them will come online in four ticks of the clock, one will come on in six ticks of the clock, one will come on with eight ticks of the clock, and then Ekpyrosis will arrive in 10 ticks. All of them will tick at the same time to represent time advancing. But so that’s the sort of, like, they will get some reinforcements in four ticks of those clocks. 
At the very top of this map, there is a sort of long rectangle going from left to right, and the rectangle is carved up into a set of different locations, and also I've marked them all with names. This is not a Gucci Garantine mission, which means they don't have fun names. [Sylvia laughs] Instead, it’s Zone 0, Zone 1, Zone 2, Zone 3, Zone 4, Zone 5, and Zone 6. Zone 0 is all the way to the left. It is the kind of empty space to the west of this part of the big ring that surrounds the center of the galaxy. As a reminder, there are kind of gaps in the ring sometimes, and this is one such gap. And so that’s Zone 0, just space all the way west. 
Zone 1 is the probable landing zone, which is to say it’s the place where you suspect the Divine Principality forces, the Pact of Free States forces will land. And it will do that, because it’s just outside of this kind of anti-ship cannon range, all the way in Zone 4. Those cannons can shoot all the way to Zone 2, and so, easy for— you know, they can't land there. They would probably get shot out of the sky if they tried to. So, Zone 2 is this kind of big open area. There's, like, vents and various pieces throughout of, you know, cover to hide behind and have a mech fight in. Loose wires and wreckage from a previous battle many, many, many years ago. 
Zone 3 is the Wave Production and Control Server or one of many such servers here on the ring here. You got intel that part of it may have gotten taken under control by advanced Pact forces. This is inside of a section of the ring here, so that is why it’s like a darker color. It’s not, like, on the surface, the way the rest of everything else is. Zone 4 is where your big anti-ship cannons are. If those get destroyed or something, that would be bad, because it would mean that the Pact could land closer. And then the power terminal is where we last saw Perennial herself, connecting with all of this power at the center of the galaxy, kind of uploading her being and consciousness with what would become the Perennial Wave. 
So, that’s the lay of the land, and again, those big objectives are basically number one: stop Motion from getting this place. Stop Motion from getting to Zone 5. But more than that, you know, try to get Cas into the right place of Zone 3. You don't know necessarily where in Zone 3 that is yet. And then, ideally, prevent them from getting reinforcements from these big hexagonal Portcullis gates. So, what’s the plan? Is there a team split-up here? Is there…are some folks going to go all the way west and some folks going to hang back? What’s the plan?
Sylvia: I feel like one of our, like, things we should be trying to do, right, is, like, focusing on cutting of reinforcements early. So like, if we split up, we should probably have, like, dedicated Portcullis gate people? I don't know if we want to, like, split up, like, wave defense duties like we're playing, like, Bloons or whatever, but like… [Sylvia and Austin laugh quietly] Like, how tower defensey are we getting?
Janine: I mean, it makes sense to, like…it make sense to have, like, someone who’s focused on the gate and then someone who’s, like, defending them?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Right? Like the classic RPG structure of…
Sylvia: Tank and DPS situation?
Janine: Well, I was going to say, like, to cover the person who’s fragile while they're doing the thing.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, yeah.
Janine: And you have the little percentage bar over your thing.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Got it. Someone’s casting a ritual, basically.
Austin: Mm.
Janine: Yeah. You know video games? It’s like video games.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Right, it’s like video games.
Sylvia: What are those? 
Weapon [0:15:57]
Austin: Speaking of casting a ritual, did y'all decide what your Tier 6 thing is that you pulled up from Earth?
Sylvia: Oh yeah, that might help. [laughs quietly] 
Janine: I threw some tag ideas Ali’s way, but I'm content to, like, if there's a thing that she has a cool idea for, 'cause I'm already, like, a big thing with a gun, so.
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.
Janine: I don't know if there's some stuff that, like, Ali’s like, “I would really to have X and do Y.”
Ali: Um, no, I mean, I—
Janine: But also if you want it to be, like, a cannon, I'll carry it. It’s fine either way.
Ali: No, I think the idea there is fine. I think the only thing is that it feels like a Tier 2 thing and not a Tier 6 thing…but if it shoots good. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Janine: Wait, why…? Explain to me why it feels Tier 2 versus Tier 6, because I have never had to make gear in this game, so I might have just [Ali: Okay.] done it bad.
Ali: Well, the Blue Channel is a spaceship, and that’s Tier 5. So, the idea is a cool, like, gun. 
Janine: Right.
Ali: Have a cool gun.
Keith: Well, you can have a gun that is a Tier 6 gun, and the thing that it would do is have advantage when it’s shooting on things Tier 5.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And super advantage on anything lower.
Ali: Right.
Keith: But it does allow you to go big. You could have— I mean, do I think you dug up a battleship on the beach?
Ali: No.
Keith: I don't think so.
Austin: Well, sorry.
Janine: I mean, that’s the thing, right? Like…
Austin: Really quick. Tiers do have kind of assumed scale with the— items have assumed scale according to their tier, right?
Keith: Right.
Austin: So, like, a human can't wield a Tier 3 item weapon without a move that lets them do that.
Keith: Right.
Austin: That’s, like, what Levi’s…
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Levi’s thing, Levi’s Giantkiller thing lets him wield a Tier 3 weapon, right? So, a Tier 6 weapon is probably just straight up not something a single person could carry around.
Janine: Mm.
Austin: Like, it isn't just a +6 weapon in, like, a D&D sense. It is immense in some way. So, it probably is—
Janine: God, is it a thing where it’s like a turret that’s, like, on the planet that, like, shoots into space? Like, is that maybe…?
Austin: Oh, that’s kind of fun.
Keith: Yeah, there is one of the…one of the tags is like— or one of the weapons is like— I guess this is a tag too. There's, like, an auto-cannon thing. You could have, like, an automated thing that is, like, making its own attacks.
Austin: I think what Janine meant more of was: is it a gun so big that it’s on Earth, which is nearby?
Janine: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: Not a turret in the “I'm playing a tower defense game, and I've popped a turret down,” but it is a giant—
Keith: It is a ground-to-space gun.
Austin: Correct. That’s a fun idea.
Janine: Yeah, that you, like, would have a person sitting at who has to, like— 'cause I pitched some tags to Ali that made it, like, cool, but like, it did need something that makes it special in some way.
Ali: Yeah, the thing that you said was some sort of sound wave ballista launcher thing.
Sylvia: Yo.
Ali: Which I think is a fine weapon.
Dre: Oh!
Austin: That’s very fun. Yeah.
Ali: But yeah, I think the shooting from Earth thing is really fun. It can also be a thing that attaches to the Blue Channel, if we want it to be a little bit more maneuverable in that way.
Austin: A thing that might be fun might be, there's a thing— if we want to do the “it’s on Earth” thing, it might be that it’s a thing that you need someone to dial in from here. Like, you have to do the thing where—
Janine: Oh, sure.
Austin: You do the laser targeting, right? And then the gun on Earth fires to the thing you've successfully laser targeted, you know?
Dre: Mm.
Janine: You know that—
Austin: Less maneuverable, but yeah.
Janine: I kind of like the idea of that. The thing that immediately came to mind was that big telescope that was in…Puerto Rico? It was in one of the James Bond…games?
Austin: Mm. The GoldenEye finale.
Janine: Arecibo?
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Janine: That it’s now unfortunately fucked.
Austin: Falling apart, right? Yeah.
Janine: Yeah, it collapsed.
Dre: Aw.
Janine: But when it was around, it was cool and definitely feels like, “Oh, this is a weapon that Earth might have made in their sort of last days.” Like, the thing that I think is important is that, like…I, in my head, have been like, this is a thing where, like, maybe it was a sort of last ditch attempt to save things. They put a lot of resources in.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: And in the end, they put too many resources in, and it wasn't ready fast enough, and like, it just, nothing came of it.
Austin: Right.
Janine: Like, it was just too late.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: They made this really powerful thing, and then it was just like, “Well, we can't even do anything with it. What the fuck?”
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: And we put all of this stuff into it. Like…
Austin: Independence is here. Independence is, right, has corrupted us, whatever.
Janine: Yeah. So it just sits there.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: I have a picture where it’s not as—
Austin: Falling apart so much?
Janine: The falling apart one’s probably better for what we're looking at, [Austin: Ah.] but in terms of when it was in good shape.
Austin: Oh, yeah. That’s cool.
Dre: Mm. Oh, yeah. I remember this part from Goldeneye. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Yeah. He jumps. It’s the whole thing, yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: So it’s this, except it produces a sort of massive concussive shock wave that shoots into space, but you need to—
Janine: That’s my pitch.
Austin: I like that pitch, if Ali, do you like that pitch?
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: With the idea that, like, the Blue Channel has some sort of, like, targeting array that it news to hit with or, like, needs to sustain, you know, aiming at, you know? 
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Me playing Resident Evil 7, and you get to the part towards the end where you're a different character, and you get the laser targeter, and I kept turning it off too soon, and the fucking missiles kept missing the big boss. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: Mm.
Austin: It’s fine. It worked out fine. We got through it.
Janine: I also saw this picture of this D&D weapon called Duskcrusher.
Sylvia: Whoa.
Janine: And I was like, oh, I like that it’s firing, like, a disc.
Austin: Oh, that's fun.
Janine: Because it reminds me of those, like, sound guns people used to use on old YouTube, and they'd put, like, vape smoke or whatever in them, and then, like… [Sylvia and Janine laugh]
Sylvia: No, I know what you mean.
Keith: Shit. Sounds sick.
Sylvia: I do know exactly what you mean, actually.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Janine: You pull the thing back and then snap it, and it goes “bomp,” and it’s like a big disc of smoke that just, like, shoots forward?
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Thought that was cool.
Austin: Mm-hmm. [quiet laughter] Yeah, I understand. I'm looking at images now. Yeah. I remember these.
Janine: Anyway, these are thoughts. These are pitches. These are ideas.
Austin: Yeah. Put down “giant vape gun” on your sheet. We'll be good to go.
Janine: Well, wait. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: No, I…
Janine: I don't like that. 
Austin: Put down…you know. I'm gonna say concussive cannon over sonic cannon, maybe, because sound, of course, [Janine: Yeah.] can't travel in the vacuum of space, but…
Janine: Maybe it can in disc form.
Austin: Maybe it can in disc—
Keith: We could put a bubble. We could put some sort of membrane around the sound.
Austin: Right.
Janine: [cross] Maybe the disc collects atmosphere, and that preserves…
Austin: [cross] Right, okay. Yeah, okay. Mm-hmm.
Janine: And then, et cetera.
Austin: And then et cetera.
Keith: Wow. And actually they did use the gun, and it collected so much atmosphere that it destroyed the Earth.
Austin: Wow, so true. [quiet laughter] Incredible. What, uh…we’ll quickly make this. What is the element or the approach for this thing? I guess if it was built to kill a Divine, theoretically, right? or at least to fight a Divine, it’s probably Arcane? Since that’s good against Divine stuff?
Keith: Yeah, you definitely want to pick Arcane.
Ali: Would they have access to that?
Austin: I think we're gonna say that you've hooked it up such, you've powered it with Kalmeria or whatever.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: You know?
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: To make it do that. Unless what you're suggesting is it’s just Mundane, right? Which is possible. Which isn't strong against Divine, but it is not weak against Divine either, so maybe that’s useful.
Ali: I guess if it’s, like…the Kalmeria thing makes sense if it’s, like, projecting atmosphere like we just said.
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Ali: Like, there’s…
Austin: Yeah, 'cause it’s definitely not Profane. Unless you've powered it with a Divine thing, which is maybe possible, right?
Ali: Mm.
Austin: Is this a thing you've hooked Asepsis up to? Is this a thing that you've paired with Asepsis in some way, you know?
Ali: Sorry, I'm looking for the…
Austin: Oh, the—
Ali: Moves and Rules has it. Okay.
Austin: Moves and Rules has it, has the chart, yeah.
Ali: Yeah, I mean, I guess you would have to think for it to connect to the Blue Channel’s systems [Austin: Mm-hmm.] in a way that, like, isn't like, [mocking] “the firmware’s fucked up.” [Sylvia and Ali laugh] You would need Asepsis to kind of be your data cable in that way, so I think that works.
Austin: And what sort of tags do we think are on this fucking thing? It’s probably…I guess, Janine, you sent some tags over already. I didn't see these, so I don't…
Ali: Yeah, I can copy and paste that.
Janine: I sent very gamified, very like— not gamified. Very like, “how do we make this good in a game?” type tags.
Austin: Right, right.
Janine: But again, basing that on, like, I've never had to make an item in this, so I don't know what I'm doing.
Austin: Yeah. 
Ali: [laughs quietly] It’s easy to do. You just think about it.
Austin: I guess I should actually—
Janine: Just picking cool things.
Austin: Sorry. To go back to a character thing, I just realized I hadn't asked about Asepsis. Like, has Asepsis been with you for the last year, Brnine?
Ali: Um…
Austin: You didn't leave Asepsis behind on the Blue Channel, presumably.
Ali: I…you know, I don't want it to be the thing of, like, “Brnine left to fight a war, and they lost 'cause Asepsis wasn't there.”
Austin: Sure.
Ali: So I think that Asepsis has been with Brnine in some way.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: I think that, like…you know, in terms of thinking about Asepsis as, like, an algorithm or like a computer program, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] I think that, like, some of the, like, sequences and stuff have stayed in the Blue Channel, [Austin: Oh, sure.] like, operating system or whatever, but all the drones and stuff came with Brnine.
Austin: Gotcha.
Ali: In a little cat cage or whatever the fuck they put that shit in now. 
Austin: A little cat cage. [Janine laughs]
Janine: [cross] One of those little bubble backpacks.
Ali: [cross] In one of those backpacks. Yeah! [Ali, Janine, and Dre laugh]
Janine: Just buzzing.
Austin: Sneaking little pieces of tuna into your Asepsis backpack while you're waiting for your connecting flight. 
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh. So then—
Keith: Tuna, as we know, is pure. [Ali laughs]
Austin: That’s right.
Keith: Tuna is extremely pure.
Ali: Or would it— it would be like eating a banana and then putting the peel in there so they could, like, tear it apart.
Janine: Oh, so it’s like having a racoon. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Or like a very smart compost.
Ali: Uh huh. [Sylvia and Austin laugh quietly] Exactly.
Austin: And these tags are Decisive, Vorpal, Messy, Bulky, Reload. That all feels exactly right.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Yeah, these are some cheater tags. I think Janine did a really good job. [laughs] 
Austin: Uh huh.
Janine: Listen. I do a lot to go against the Adaire instincts, but sometimes it’s—
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: If it ain't now, then…
Janine: What if it’s a gun that shoots good and fast and right?
Austin: Yeah. Agreed.
Ali: I think— this is like a final blow weapon, I think.
Janine: Yeah, that was very much the thing I was like, it is built to be a [Austin: Yeah.] “and then this happens” type gun.
Austin: Yeah. [Ali laughs] Yeah. Better not miss.
Janine: That’s not some shit you pop in the first round. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Uh huh. Well…
Keith: I mean, does it say— wait, tell me the tags again?
Austin: It’s Decisive, Vorpal.
Keith: Okay. Okay.
Austin: Messy, Bulky, Reload. So…
Keith: Yeah, fuck. I think, yeah, shoot it as soon as possible is what I think.
Ali: Well, Decisive gives you a bonus to Strike Decisively.
Austin: Once per scene, yeah.
Ali: And then Vorpal lets you raise a Risk to a Peril?
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Once per sortie. So that’s once per sortie, versus the Decisive is once per scene.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: But you don't have to use those if you don't want to, right? You could just use it as a really powerful Tier 6 weapon immediately. And then, I think, Keith, is your— am I picking up what you're putting down? You're reading the word Reload and thinking—
Keith: Right.
Austin: Shoot it immediately so that we can spend—
Keith: So that you can reload it. Yeah.
Janine: Oh.
Austin: So you can reload it immediately and get as many shots off with it in the sortie as you can.
Janine: True.
Sylvia: Does that become, like, part of the sortie plan here? 
Austin: It sounds like it.
Sylvia: Like, is the crux of this mission going to be, like, protecting this thing so that it can fire off at the gates and the Ekpyrosis?
Keith: And this did spring off of a conversation about what our plan might be, and I think part of the plan is: shoot the messy weapon before any of us are over there.
Austin: Sure.
Ali: Mm.
Janine: Mm.
Austin: Well, you are going to have to get close enough to dial it in, right?
Keith: Okay.
Austin: You're going to have to get closer than— I guess—
Keith: I thought it was on the Earth. What is our distance? Did I miss something about this weapon?
Austin: You have to— yeah, the thing you missed about the weapon is that someone has to laser target it from nearby.
Keith: Oh! Got it, got it, got it, got it.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Do we, like, have a—
Janine: Is that another—
Sylvia: Oh, go ahead.
Janine: Sorry, I was going to say: is that another tag we should be adding instead of something else?
Austin: I think that’s built in.
Janine: If it’s a thing we have to precisely do, that sounds like a negative one.
Austin: It does. It does sound like a negative one. I would maybe say that it’s a— which maybe gives you another positive one, if you want it.
Keith: I agree.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I totally agree.
Austin: Yeah. [Dre chuckles] So I would say it’s—
Keith: Just in case anyone wanted to know. I agree. [quiet laughter] 
Austin: Uh huh. Uh huh.
Ali: Thank you.
Austin: You know, I actually think it— I think that’s partly tied to Bulky already, but if we really want to, we can come up with a new -1 that is— oh, it’s Setup, actually. “Make moves using this item with disadvantage, unless you spend time to prepare or arm it in some way. In battle, this may be only a few moments, but it can make all the difference.” That’s exactly what this is. It has the Setup tag, which is to say, you have to target it, right? You can't just fire it repeatedly.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Though you could, it would just be at disadvantage, right? Which is interesting, right? We could be in a situation.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: But I means you get one more +1 tag.
Janine: Also, is there maybe— is there a better tag for something being stationary than Bulky is the other thing. ‘Cause Bulky was—
Austin: It’s probably Stationary, which is a -2, right? It’s huge. It’s huge.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Basically impossible to move around without help.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: So. So, yeah.
Janine: Yeah. That makes more sense.
Austin: So you actually have another two points.
Janine: So then we could maybe—
Keith: Ruin?
Janine: Or we could, like, take out Messy or something.
Ali: Well, I think that we could switch Messy for Setup.
Austin: Mm.
Ali: Because I don't think Messy describes what it actually does.
Janine: Yeah. Discs aren't messy. Discs are—
Ali: Like, I've we have Decisive, it’s precise and powerful.
Austin: Right. Sure. So, you've removed Messy in exchange for Setup. I'm going to count these out really quick. Huge gives you 2 points. Setup gives you 1. Reload gives you 1. You're at +2. Uh, sorry, you're at +4. Vorpal takes 2, so that leaves you with 2 more. And Decisive takes 1, so you have 1 left, at this point. You get another +1 tag on here if you want it.
Dre: Uh, you could do Guided.
Ali: I was just about to say that.
Austin: Especially because we know that we're—
Keith: If we're targeting it.
Austin: That you're targeting it [Ali: Yeah.] and that we talked last session that Guided things don't have to be guided. You can choose to take the roll.
Janine: Mm.
Keith: To take the 7-9, yeah.
Austin: To take the 7-9 versus. All right, cool. Decisive, Guided, Vorpal. Huge, Setup, Reload. I put it on the Cause Factions sheet next to Notes, just under the rest of the carrier weapons.
Dre: Oh, thanks.
Plan [0:32:32]
Keith: So, remind me about— in the last one, we talked about capturing the Portcullis gates.
Austin: Sure. That’s also— yeah.
Keith: Not destroying them. And we could capture them at— I don't remember the mechanics of this, but I remember that we could capture them whether they're open or closed, to take control of them.
Austin: You'd have to board them and find the place to capture them on board. You know, to take control of it.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: The thing that was— the thing that is possible is that you don't have to, like, hack into anything. You don't have to— the gates have been effectively put on automated mode. Like, anybody who wants to use them can.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: The former Elect of the Divine Space—or I guess the still Elect of the Divine Space—is not, like, out there running defense against this.
Keith: Right.
Austin: He has effectively decided…the short version of it is he has effectively decided: oh, we basically won and have been outmaneuvered not by the Divine— sorry, not by the Bilateral Intercession or not by Millennium Break, but simply by the turning of the wheel.
Keith: Right.
Austin: He’s looking at things like the emerging stuff that Connadine and Arbitrage are doing, where people are, like, taking contracts with each other and are spending glint and basically are living their entire lives as, like, DoorDash employees for every little bit of their lives, and being like, “Wow, that’s even more libertarian than my dream. That’s the future, not my shit,” and kind of throw in with that but, like, not even throw in so much as, like, “All right, we did our job over here in the Pact.” He’s just, like, opening the gates everywhere.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Travel should be free, you know? There will be a— in the previous episode, everyone can hear probably me and Jack talk a little bit about the emerging Principality Protocol that Arbitrage is laying out, replacing a state with a protocol, with a marketplace. A little preview of things to come in future seasons, maybe. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Mm.
Austin: [sarcastic] We love to see it. We love to see every— replace the word “citizen” with “operator of the free market.” It’s all happening.
Sylvia: Sorry, this is about the podcast, or…?
Austin: No. No. No, this is real life.
Sylvia: Yeah, that’s what I thought. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Real life, it’s happening. Mm-hmm. Anyway. So yeah, getting on board would allow you— getting on board and getting into the control center of one of these or any of them would let you take it over, and that combined with having Cas’alear kind of lead, you know, their speech by saying, “Hey, as the Apokine, I am doing XYZ,” which presumably you've communicated to cas, will allow you to bring in not just other Millennium Break people and not just other Star Crossed people…that’s the name of your group, right, Dre?
Dre: Yeah. Star Crossed Brigade.
Austin: The Star Crossed Brigade.
Keith: You're talking about Levi’s Friends?
Austin: Levi’s Friends. Levi’s Boys.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Friends of Levi. But also additional Apostolosian support, which is currently mixed, or currently mostly set up on the side of Motion, but some of them would come in onto your side if all of that went the right way basically, so. So yeah, maybe you don't want to destroy all of them. Maybe you do want to take them over. Instead, maybe there will be other targets of opportunity you want to shoot with this big gun.
Keith: Nah.
Ali: Yeah, there's gotta be, like, a Pact flagship or whatever, right?
Austin: The Pact flagship is on its way. That’s the Ekpyrosis. It’s on its way now. Right now, there’s— you have the intel you have, right? There's theoretically other intel out there. Presumably, they have some sort of base from which they are bringing these things online, right? I guess that’s worth saying. Right now, the Portcullis gates aren't finished yet, so you couldn't take one of them over to turn it on and get reinforcements from it, 'cause it’s not finished yet, right? They're not fully activated, so they need to get activated for you to then take them over. But whatever that platform is, whatever the kind of construction platform, is theoretically also out there near those gates. So, it sounds like part of the plan is go aggressive on those, and then, if there is— is there a split team, or is the idea to blitz these gates and take care of that first things first?
Keith: So, we have a really weird team now.
Austin: You sure do. Look at everybody here on the map, all over on the right hand side.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: So—
Janine: Where’s Mow?
Austin: Oh, I'll put Mow down. Sorry.
Keith: The only person— oh, no. I guess now Mow is a Tier 3, so we have, like, Cori—
Janine: Is that true?
Keith: Yeah, Mow’s Tier 3. Yeah, you have a—
Austin: Just Tier 3. Right?
Keith: Right. But that’s, like, the normal mech tier.
Austin: Yes.
Keith: And then Cori is Tier…
Austin: 4.
Keith: Has the Tier 4 [Sylvia: Yep.] Altar, which is like the +1 mech tier.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I think I also have some stuff that lets me fight with tiers above me, if I look at my weapons.
Keith: Everyone else is B-Plot or is support character.
Austin: Well, Levi can also fight a Tier 3.
Keith: That’s— right, I can fight a Tier 3.
Dre: I can fight a Tier 5.
Sylvia: Yo?
Austin: Damn.
Keith: Yes. I could also fight a Tier 5.
Dre: I'm not Tier 3, but I can damage a Tier 5.
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Right, sorry. Let’s be clear about that.
Keith: But we're not in mechs in the same kind of way.
Austin: Right. Yes.
Keith: Which, like, kind of maybe makes us a little different of a thing. Like, okay, I have, like, a robot. Like, I have a tank that I can get into.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: And we have the Blue Channel, but it isn't— this is not, like, four on four mech fight.
Sylvia: No.
Keith: Which kind of makes— I think it makes having to come up with a plan maybe more intentional on who goes where to do what.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Or maybe I'm wrong? I don't know.
Sylvia: No, I don't think you're wrong.
Keith: Okay.
Dre: No, no, I think you're right.
Sylvia: I think you're exactly right. I'm happy to— like, where do we think—? I guess my question is, like, where do we think the mechs are best served, right? 'Cause I'm happy to be, like, forward. [sarcastic] I know, Cori volunteering to be front line. That’s crazy. [Austin and Ali chuckle]
Dre: Mm.
Ali: Hear, hear.
Sylvia: But also, I can fly, is a big thing, right?
Dre: Uh huh.
Sylvia: So like, I feel like that’s going to come in handy. I don't know.
Keith: I have a sniper weapon. Is that—? That’s true, right? Yes. I have a sniper rifle. That’s my big thing.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: I want to be— my goal, my best use is to be in the tank, with my squad, sniping at stuff.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Sniping especially, you know, at Tier 3 and above stuff, because I have the, like, Ruin weapons that are good against—
Sylvia: Your crew— oh, go ahead.
Keith: That are good against higher tier.
Sylvia: Yeah. Your crew being like the back line makes sense to me too, 'cause it feels like that— 
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: I know that, like, maybe mechanically it doesn't go one-to-one, but fictionally, it feels like that way we're stationing more people near the stuff we're protecting, right?
Keith: Mm-hmm. Yep. Which was one of our early ideas.
Sylvia: Yeah. So, like…I’m trying to, like, picture the zones, like the way you have to, like, lay out party members in an RPG, like a JRPG.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Leap, does your tank have a name?
Keith: Yeah. It is the Precipice.
Austin: Right. Right, right, right. I also have a Brnine, like, token here, but presumably, Brnine, you're in the Blue Channel right now.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: But if we need a Brnine token, I can pull one on board, you know? Don't worry about it.
Ali: Yeah. I'm in a weird place, because Tactical Genius, I have to be supervising allies from afar to use any of that stuff.
Austin: Well, afar just means on the Blue Channel. It doesn't mean, like, in a base somewhere else.
Ali: Sure.
Austin: That’s how that’s always worked for us, going back to Art playing this playbook in that first Armour Astir thing, you know?
Ali: Okay, yeah. 
Austin: Because it’s during a sortie explicitly, right? It’s not when you're doing B-Plot stuff. It’s while you're here and in your ship. It’s doing Bright stuff from Gundam, right?
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Sorry, when is this? What are we doing?
Austin: Tactical Genius is one of Brnine’s big moves, you know?
Keith: Oh, sure, sure, sure.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Mm-hmm. But yeah, I'm presumably on the Blue Channel, but if I use the Blue Channel, it wouldn't be with any of these. It would have to be with plus Crew or something else, is why I bring that up.
Austin: Sure. Wait, why? Because…
Ali: Because I wouldn't be far from the Blue Channel. So, all these moves are, like, for player characters and not that stuff.
Keith: No, I thought it’s when you're in the Blue Channel but far from the action.
Austin: Yeah, it’s like, if you're in the ship— let’s say that there was a fight happening in Zone 2, and you were, like, flying above Zone 2 or flying above Zone 3.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: If you're not, like, on the ground with them, you can use Tactical Genius.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: You know. As long as you're not, like, you're not in a mech down on the ground with them, you could totally use it.
Ali: Right.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Gotcha.
Austin: And you could us any stat you wanted, whatever the appropriate stat is, you know?
Ali: Mm-hmm. Yeah. But I feel like that’s why I should go back to Fire Support, because that’s: when you call shots for the carrier’s crew, I can Exchange Blows with the Blue Channel. That seems like my way of doing that
Austin: But you could do that with— sorry, you can do that all the time by rolling plus Crew as many times as you want, because you're…
Ali: Okay. Fair enough.
Austin: Right? Am I wrong about that?
Ali: Um, I guess.
Austin: It says, yeah, unlike other playbooks… “When other playbooks use plus Crew, you may do this as many times as you want. Increase your character’s crew by +1.”
Ali: Okay. And then I would just use Exchange Blows or whatever.
Austin: You would just use Exchange Blows with Crew. Yeah, Fire Support lets you do that with Know, in case you have a low Crew score, right?
Ali: Okay.
Austin: So.
Ali: Yep.
Dre: Mm.
Ali: Yeah, so I could be anywhere. But Brnine is on the Blue Channel, yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Well, and presumably wants to be close enough to call in shots for this thing.
Ali: Uh huh.
Dre: Oh, good call. Yeah.
Austin: So, it sounds like Cori is going forward. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: The Blue Channel is going forward.
Dre: I would say I would also like Levi to be with mechs.
Austin: Okay.
Dre: ‘Cause Levi has a move that allows him to remove Risk from mechs, using a cool-off.
Austin: Mm. Cool. So then, that sounds like a forward operating group being Levi, Cori, Blue Channel; leaving us with questions about Thisbe, Mow, the Precipice, Leap, Leap’s crew, and then Cas’alear and Cas’alear’s crew. I haven't statted out the Stolen Cameo or the Star Crossed ship. I imagine both of them could, like, move people around quickly, but none of them are as combat capable as the Blue Channel. They're both— I think they probably both cap out at Tier 4 stuff versus Blue Channel’s big Tier 5 sniper rifle and then, now, [Dre: Sure.] Tier 6 Earth cannon. So, Thisbe, Leap? Are you going to do…is anyone escorting Cas'alear in? Are folks going to move up to forward zone to prevent…? Like, what’s the…?
Keith: So, I had just, like, an alternate pitch [Austin: Mm-hmm.] to my original pitch, which was that I am— sorry, I got thrown off, because my ferret was eating Blistex.
Sylvia: Yeah, no worries. [Janine and Ali laugh] I was trying really hard not to laugh at that.
Ali: We've all been there.
Austin: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Keith: I think that he’s fine. He seems fine.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: It’s just wax.
Keith: Yeah. There's— they can't have some oils, and there's some different oils that’s in there.
Janine: Oh.
Keith: Anyway, but…when I’m leading my crew, we all count as Tier 2.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Which does give me a pretty unique advantage if we decide to go and take the Portcullis.
Austin: Like, if you board it, you mean.
Keith: Right, board it, yeah.
Austin: Yeah. You're Tier 3 if you're in the tank also.
Keith: Right.
Austin: Right? All together.
Keith: Oh, can the tank go in there? I just figured the tank would be too big.
Austin: No, no, no. I'm just letting—
Keith: Right.
Austin: I'm just suggesting that— I'm just making sure that we're clear on that rule, that like—
Keith: Right. So it’d be one tier…
Austin: You're one tier higher, based on…
Keith: Right.
Austin: Yeah. So.
Keith: But then me and the crew are all Tier 2.
Austin: Right. When you're working together, right?
Keith: Yeah. I think the crew counts as Tier 2 and I count as Tier 2? I think that it’s, like, two sets—
Austin: Mm.
Keith: It’s kind of word— it’s slightly ambiguously worded. “You and your team have been trained for tougher enemies and odds. When leading your crew, you are both considered Tier 2.”
Austin: Yeah, sure. There it goes. That makes sense.
Keith: But I'm fine, like— I don't know what the— sorry, where is the—? Which zone is the entrance to the—? Is it Zone 1 is the entrance to the Portcullis?
Austin: They are in— they're to the west of that. They're in Zone 0 to the west.
Keith: Zone 0. Okay. Oh, so—
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: If you look down a little bit, you can see them floating outside of the kind of operational zone, you know?
Keith: Okay.
Ali: It’s the three diamonds here?
Austin: It’s the three— yeah, exactly.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: So, it’s not like, you know, get to Tier 3 and then either be shooting in a tank or run inside, ‘cause inside isn't until way past that anyway.
Austin: Zone 3 is the— sorry, you mean inside of the Portcullis gates.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, you have to get to the Portcullises to get there.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: So then, this is not an alternate plan. This is a stage two that we haven't reached.
Austin: Correct.
Keith: Got it.
Austin: And again, they need to be— there's a little bit of a juggling act here, which is none of them are operational yet.
Keith: Right.
Austin: And you will not be able to, yourself, with your own two hands, make them operational. They are basically being finalized, presumably by some sort of construction crew. 
Keith: Right.
Austin: Now, you know, could you somehow compel that— you don't know. The intel you have is just what you see right now, which is you know where they are.
Keith: Okay. Yeah.
Austin: That’s all you know for sure.
Keith: Okay. Yeah, I'll figure it out.
Austin: And you know they're coming online in this timeline.
Keith: Well, then I'm ready to start blastin’. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Oh, okay. [Janine sighs] So, can we go around the table and say what everybody believes their goal is?
Keith: My goal is to start blastin’. [Ali laughs]
Dre: Mm.
Austin: That’s not a clear goal.
Janine: I need a recap, 'cause I'm, like, so confused at this point.
Austin: Yes.
Janine: About what the plan—
Austin: This is…
Janine: The plan that we have locked down, I don't…
Dre: Mm.
Janine: That’s the part I'm like, “Wait, what?”
Keith: I believe that Levi and Cori were going to go to the front lines, and Leap with Precipice was going to hang back and shoot cannon blasts at big targets. That’s what I can account for.
Sylvia: So we should be— logistically, do we need to be— is Zone 3 the only interior space? Zone 4 is also inside, or…?
Austin: Zone 3 and Zone 5.
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Right? The power terminal itself is interior.
Sylvia: So it’s the gray that’s interior. 
Austin: It’s the dark gray, correct. 
Sylvia: I just wasn't sure if the Precipice needed to be beyond that to be able to fire cleanly.
Austin: It would need to be beyond the inte— it would need to be in Zone 2 to snipe into Zone 1, yes.
Sylvia: Okay. 'Cause I was also thinking of getting stationed up in Zone 2 just to move my little thing to illustrate that. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Remind me of Zone 6?
Austin: Zone 6 is to the east of the power terminal, and it’s just space again, right?
Keith: Okay.
Austin: If I really wanted to, what I should do is break the— you know, this thing is gigantic, and it is not a single one band that would [Keith: Right.] potentially shatter if you shook it too hard. [laughs quietly] It’s actually composed of—
Keith: We have a band that we're seeing.
Austin: Exactly. Exactly.
Keith: Right.
Austin: And to the east of it and to the west of it is space for some amount of time.
Keith: Right, which is why—
Austin: And then it becomes band again at such a near distance that, from the galactic scale, it looks like a complete band, but if you get there, it’s like, [Keith: Right.] oh, there's gaps in this thing, you know?
Keith: Which is why there's Zone 0 over here but then also down here.
Austin: Exactly. That is right. And then Zone 6 is over to the right. You can see it, right?
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: And really, they're like…you know, you get what I'm saying. You get how it works. I think. 
Keith: Um, edge of cannon range. Okay, and…
Austin: So, in other words, the anti-ship cannons over on Zone 4 cannot reach into Zone 1, which is why it’s probably where the Pact is going to land their stuff, because that’s the place that these anti-ship cannons can't reach.
Keith: Right.
Austin: Right?
Keith: But the Earth cannon could reach there, if we locked on.
Austin: Totally.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Well, I think that’s definitely something to do. [laughs quietly] 
Janine: And, so wait, we don't want to go to—? We would want to be in Zone 2 instead of Zone 1, for…?
Austin: There's a chance— you would know that there's a chance that they've already landed at Zone 1, right? You would—
Janine: Okay, so it would be risky to…
Austin: You know, if you're approaching Zone 1, you'll end up— you know, yeah, based on what [Janine: Okay.] our roll here ends up being, right?
Dre: Mm.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: I will tell you: it’s probable that they already have stuff landed there.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: You just don't know what.
Janine: I'm inclined to join Cori in Zone 2, then, to be in the mix.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Thisbe’s very much built to be in the mix.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: [laughing quietly] And especially now that I took two Soldier moves about being in the fucking mix.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Fair.
Dre: Mm.
Janine: I can't move Mow, by the way. 
Austin: Oh, I'll give you Mow. Give me a second.
Janine: Mow is immune to me.
Austin: [typing] There's Mow, and I'll put Mow’s name up. Boom. Okay, go for it.
Keith: What do we think my sniper range is? Do you think it’s similar to the anti-ship cannons, or do you think it’s…?
Austin: No, it’s way smaller. It’s zone to zone.
Keith: That’s what I thought. It’s zone to zone?
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: The idea that you could—
Keith: So I could go from 4 to 3.
Austin: You could go from— well, except that 3 is an interior.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Austin: So you could shoot on top of it, yes, but…
Keith: But I just mean theoretically.
Austin: Yes, you could go from 2 to 1, for instance, yes. Or 1 to 0, right?
Keith: Yeah. Well, then I would— then I guess I'm going to Zone— can I go to the top of Zone 3? Is that— that’s an option?
Austin: Sure. You can be, like, on the roof of it, yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Hell yeah.
Austin: Totally. That’s fun. Do me a favor and put yourself, like, up, like, literal at the very top of it, because eventually there's going to be— not Cori, sorry.
Sylvia: Oh, sorry. 
Austin: Cori, you stay where you're at.
Sylvia: I thought you mean, like, all of us. [Janine laughs quietly] 
Austin: Just Leap and the Precipice and Leap’s crew, for reasons that will become clear [Keith: Right.] eventually, if we get inside of that Zone 3. Cool. And presumably, the Star Crossed ship has dropped people off here. Likewise…actually, the Stolen Cameo is staying back. I'm moving your crew up with you, Leap.
Keith: Oh, I missed them.
Austin: Blue Channel position.
Ali: I can't move it.
Austin: Oh, let me…hmm? You should be able to. It says all.
Ali: Okay.
Dre: Oh, I can move it.
Ali: Sorry, I was on hand and not arrow. 
Austin: Ah.
Ali: [laughing] Which makes a fucking difference, apparently.
Dre: Ah, of course. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Can you also move it to above the actual…?
Ali: Well, I was going to put it here, in this sort of space?
Austin: Oh. Totally. That works, yes.
Keith: Here’s—
Ali: Just to—
Keith: Oh, sorry.
Ali: Go on. No, I—
Keith: Have we neglected Cas?
Austin: Maybe it’ll be fine. 
Sylvia: [nervous breath]
Ali: The reason I was going to stay in Zone 3’s area was so I can stay mobile. Like, if I needed to fly someone back or forward or whatever.
Keith: You’re going to be flex.
Ali: Right.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: And then also some Portcullis eyes.
Keith: Where is Cas’s destination?
Austin: Somewhere in Zone 3.
Keith: Okay.
Ali: Oh, then, yeah, Cas is fine.
Keith: I don't know that that’s true.
Dre: Yeah, I don't know if that’s true either. [laughs] 
Keith: There could be a billion people in there. I don't know. [Ali laughs quietly] Should I—? I'm sort of feeling like me and my guys should go in there with Cas, if no one else is going to be in there.
Ali: Well, I feel like if me and you are in, like—
Keith: But I'm on Zone 3, because Zone 3 is a big building.
Ali: You're not inside of it.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: So I won't be able to see or help anything that’s happening in there from up top.
Ali: Sure. But wouldn't anybody inside have to get through Cori, Levi, and Thisbe? Or no?
Austin: I guess I'll restate something I said before. Perennial no longer has complete control of Zone 3 was one of the pieces of intel that you got last session.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: So it is likely that there is something or someone who has done something inside of Zone 3. You don't know what exactly.
Keith: Yeah. If no one else is going to do it, then I'll go with Cas. But I won't be able to have the tank, so I'll be two Tier 2s.
Austin: Well, you could bring the tank in. This is a big station.
Keith: Oh, okay. I thought you said that I couldn't bring the tank.
Austin: Nope. You could bring the tank. Sorry, you couldn't bring the tank into the Portcullis gate stuff.
Keith: Right, right, right. That’s, yeah.
Austin: I mean, you could. If you could— if someone lifted the tank up and put it in the docking bay of the Portcullis gate, you could do that, but then the hallways of the [Keith: Yeah.] docking bay are not tank scale.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: The hallways of Wave Production and Control Server? They are tank scale. They are Tier 3 mech scale, in fact, so.
Keith: Can I get control of the crew here?
Austin: The crew, yes. [laughing] I should say no, and I should keep control of them—
Keith: Hey, that’s fine.
Austin: And make them move around in funny ways, but no, I'm gonna give you control. [Keith laughs]
Keith: It’s gonna be real funny.
Austin: You're going to help bring Cas and crew in. I love that. I think it might be time for…and again, I guess, to go back to Janine’s point, it sounds like the overall plan is: from Zone 2, figure out what you can see about Zone 1 and Zone 0 and begin moving in on the Portcullis gates to stop reinforcements from coming in.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Thumbs up.
Keith: And I would love to be able to get Cas through Zone 3 and help out in Zone 2 eventually.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: But let’s see how much luck we have.
Austin: Let’s see how it goes. Yeah, uh huh. I think we should do a Lead the, um…
Keith: Sortie?
Austin: Sortie roll.
Dre: Mm.
Leading the Sortie [0:55:32]
Austin: Levi.
Dre: Gotcha. Sounds like we're probably rolling with…is it Know, is the one when you're doing it off a plan?
Austin: If you're leading with wits or following a clever plan.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: What’s your Know?
Dre: Well, my Know’s a 0.
Austin: Oh boy.
Dre: But at least we have advantage.
Austin: But you will get advantage. You got advantage. That’s right.
Dre: I'm trying to remember. How does advantage work?
Austin: 3d6, take highest.
Dre: It’s been a long time since we played this. Okay.
Austin: It is. It has been.
Keith: I have— is it— um, no. It’s probably…
Dre: Hmm?
Keith: I'll just say…
Austin: Uh huh?
Keith: Is our plan that clever?
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Ha!
Keith: Or are we heading into danger and this is Defy?
Austin: Uh, I don't think that you are heading into danger [cross] carelessly, by any means.
Dre: [cross] We're not doing it carelessly.
Keith: No.
Austin: You set up a gun on Earth to shoot into space.
Keith: That’s fair. Yes.
Austin: You know?
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: You've given this some thought.
Keith: Sorry, Dre. I did my best.
Ali: That sounds careless. [Austin laughs]
Dre: No, I appreciate it.
Austin: Uh, I think if you’d left Messy on the gun, it would be careless. [laughs] 
Ali: Sure. [Dre laughs]
Austin: But.
Sylvia: Personally, I'm glad we didn't.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: All right, 3d6 plus 0. Take highest.
Dre: [sighs] When has ever anything gone wrong for me rolling 3d6?
Keith: Do we have advantage or something on this?
Austin: Yeah, that’s the three.
Dre: Yeah, we do.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: That’s the third.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Okay, sure.
Dre: Okay!
Austin: Hey, that’s a 9. Take a 9.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: 9 on this is a mixed success, obviously. On a 10+, you make it into the action unscathed. On a 7-9, the crew stumbles, misses something important, or is unprepared for what they meet.
Dre: Question, question, question.
Keith: Okay. How do we help out with this? Let’s get this to 10.
Dre: Well, no. My question is that: can I use on of the finale move Hold to bump this up to a 10?
Austin: You cannot. A Hold is used for specific things.
Dre: Okay. Okay.
Austin: Like where it says “Spend one Hold to do blank,” you know?
Dre: Yeah, gotcha.
Austin: So, unless— if you had a move that said, “Spend one Hold to add 1 to any roll,” you know what I mean?
Dre: Mm…
Austin: But I don't think you do.
Dre: Hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm.
Austin: I think that’d be a wild thing.
Dre: I'm just double checking.
Austin: And maybe you do. I don't know. What do I know?
Dre: Um, the closest thing I can think of would be somehow using my mobility move, but that’s just for me. That's not for other people.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Oh, I should—
Austin: You could use the finale move, Retrograde: “Spend one universal Hold to gain advantage on a roll, even after rolling.”
Dre: Oh, that’s what I was…
Austin: Yes.
Keith: Yeah, that’s what we asked about, yeah.
Austin: And that would let you roll a second— another d6 to see if you could get a 4, 5, or 6 on it.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: But it wouldn't be…it’s not guaranteed.
Dre: It wouldn't just be a +1.
Austin: Correct.
Keith: Right.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Which Help or Hinder also does that, right? Help or Hinder would also give you additional advantage. So, to your point, Keith, your question, if you could help.
Keith: Sorry, I just, before I forget.
Austin: Yes.
Keith: I got slightly smarter just now, thanks to Battlefield Tactics. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: Oh, shit!
Keith: “You know how to leverage your tactical know-how in the heat of the moment.”
Austin: Wow.
Keith: “Gain Hold equal to 1 plus Know, the first time you enter combat with your team—” oh, I guess my— no, I misread this.
Austin: Your Know is -1, so you get 0. [Dre laughs]
Keith: This might’ve— maybe this changed. I get 0, yeah. Nevermind.
Austin: Do you want to take a different move? 'Cause this is a thing you won't be able to use.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: I guess you could, actually, 'cause you have that Hold.
Keith: I have that Hold, yeah.
Austin: You could use the three Universal Hold on this move that you couldn't use otherwise.
Keith: I could use the Universal Hold. So, the thing that I misread this as [Austin: Yeah.] is that it gave me +1 Know.
Austin: No. Yeah.
Keith: Not Hold equal to 1 plus Know.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Which is very close but very different.
Austin: It is.
Keith: Yeah, maybe I'll take a different move. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Think about it.
Keith: I'm glad that I realized, reading the sentence, that I was wrong.
Janine: It’s funny that you started that by saying, “I just got smarter.”
Keith: “I just got smarter.” [Janine and Austin laugh]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: But I didn't get smarter.
Sylvia: Perfect.
Keith: Yeah, yeah. Leap was like, “I'm about to get smarter because of this,” [Austin laughs] and then thought and was like, “What? I'm not thinking any better than normal.”
Austin: I'm empty brain. Brain completely empty. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: I didn't get one of those put in, just the stomach. 
Austin: [laughs] Speaking of things we have to do early, and I know we might still want to try to help Levi here, but [Dre: Mm-hmm.] you should roll for your Patron boons, Sylvi.
Sylvia: Oh, you're right!
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Oh, that’s important.
Austin: Two boons at random, so roll 2d6.
Sylvia: Oh boy. Okay, Perennial, what you got for me? I got a 5 and a 3.
Austin: A 5 and a 3. 3 says Masking Boon. You can mask yourself or an Altar you are attuned to against detection. When you do so, roll plus Channel. On a 10+, you are disguised or cloaked in a fashion appropriate to your patron.”
Sylvia: Okay!
Austin: “On a 7-9, I will tell you a flaw with your disguise.” And then, was the other one 5?
Sylvia: Yeah, Shifting Boon.
Austin: You could shift two of your traits for this sortie, if you wanted to.
Sylvia: So I can be smarter, if I want to. [Sylvia and Dre laugh]
Austin: If you want to be smarter right now, you could be.
Keith: Wow.
Austin: Uh huh. That’s correct.
Sylvia: Oh. I don't know if— my good stats are Defy and Clash, and I feel like those are both important.
Austin: Those might be the ones, yeah. Does anyone want to try to help on this?
Keith: Tell me about— what are the— like, tell me what happens if I rolled a mixed success on helping. What would that do?
Austin: If you roll a mixed success, you become entangled in the consequences of the actions and possibly cause them, which means that then what would happen is Dre would roll another die, because [Keith: Right.] you would be giving them advantage, and if that advantage is a 1, 2, or 3, then you get a mixed success, and you will be more embroiled in whatever that mixed success is than you would be normally.
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Got it.
Austin: I know exactly what it would be.
Dre: [chuckles] Oh, good.
Keith: Would it help that this move says that my crew is likely to get caught up in whatever follows?
Austin: They would also get caught up in it, yes.
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: What do you mean? Yeah.
Keith: Oh, I have a move. “When you Help or Hinder another player, by calling out, I can automatically succeed as if I rolled a 7-9.”
Austin: Oh. Oh. I see what you're saying.
Keith: And it’s specifically the consequences affect the crew.
Austin: Totally. If you want to do that, then that’s, you know, why not? Fuck it.
Keith: Um…no, no, no, no. No.
Austin: You're just going to roll it.
Keith: Uh, I'm…
Austin: You're not going to help.
Keith: No, I'm not going to— right, exactly. I'm not going to help. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Austin: All right.
Sylvia: Hell yeah.
Dre: Harsh but fair.
Austin: So it’s going to be a mixed success for everybody is what it’s going to be. Is that the…?
Keith: [resigned] Oh, okay. If no one’s going to help, then I'll help but without that move.
Austin: Okay. So then you're going to roll 2d6, plus 1 if you've spent meaningful time together before this sortie. Have you and Levi hung?
Dre: Yeah!
Keith: Well, we have a Gravity Clock.
Austin: You have a Gravity Clock. What’s that Gravity Clock?
Keith: Oh, no, we have! We have spent meaningful time. We have our meetings.
Austin: Oh, you do have your meetings! That’s actually, that’s canon
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Okay, yes. So, 2d6 plus 1.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: You've not Helped or Hindered each other previously this sortie.
Keith: No.
Austin: Are you part of any— are you part of each other’s Hooks? Not Gravity Clocks, Hooks.
Dre: Uh…
Keith: Uh, yes. Yes.
Austin: Are you?
Keith: Right, yes, because I trust the Blue Channel crew.
Austin: Leap is not— or, sorry, Levi is not part of the Blue Channel crew.
Dre: Kind of was.
Sylvia: But he was.
Austin: You were. You were. You're not now.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: You're part of the whatever the name of your ship is, which I don't know that we have one. I just wrote “Star Crossed ship”.
Dre: No, we haven't. Fuck.
Sylvia: That feels semanticy to me.
Austin: It’s been a year. It hasn't been a week.
Sylvia: I guess, yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm. You weren't even in the crew for the entire Questlandia game.
Austin: Yeah, exactly. [Dre laughs]
Ali: Like, you left very early.
Sylvia: That’s a good point, actually. [Ali laughs] Nevermind.
Keith: I have one splinter to add, which is that [Dre: Hell yeah.] this is a Hook that was developed when Leap also wasn't really a part of the Blue Channel crew, and that sort of, you know, there's something about having been a member that implies, like, oh, there's something trustworthy about this group of people that have been in and out of the Blue Channel.
Austin: [cross] “Trust myself number one. Trust any—”
Janine: [cross] Yeah, like Clem.
Austin: Uh huh, yeah. There you go.
Sylvia: That’s a good point.
Janine: Swish.
Keith: [sarcastic] Yeah, thanks for helping, Janine. [Janine and Dre laugh] 
Austin: 2d6 plus 1.
Keith: “Swish,” she says, as giving herself more homework to do. [laughter]
Ali: I mean, Clem was never part of the crew, so.
Keith: Bullet through foot. Swish. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: But she has been on and off the ship. [laughs quietly] 2d6 plus 1. It’s a pretty good roll.
Dre: [sighs] Yeah, I think we're F’ed, Keith.
Keith: All right.
Austin: Well, let’s see what the roll is! 2d6 plus 1.
Keith: Oh. Uh…
Austin: All right. Oh, that’s— that didn't happen.
Keith: Oh, no, I just—
Austin: That was just me looking at Sylvi’s roll again, thinking it was a new roll.
Dre: Oh, yeah. [Sylvia chuckles]
Keith: 6. Wait.
Austin: Plus 1 plus 1 is 8.
Keith: Right.
Austin: This is PbtA here.
Keith: Forgetting games, yeah.
Austin: Forgetting the games. So, that’s a mixed success anyway. 
Keith: 8.
Austin: So now, Dre, go ahead and roll one more die and hope for a 4, 5, or 6.
Dre: Hnnnngh. [Sylvia laughs] Ayy!
Austin: Ayy! That’s a 6.
Keith: Beautiful.
Austin: That means that you have succeeded at Lead a Sortie. [Sylvia laughs quietly] On a 10+, you make it to the action unscathed. On a 7-9, the crew stumbles, misses something important, [Dre sighs] or is unprepared for what they meet. I'm going to do some reveals here, as you're able to safely move anyway you want into the zones— well. All right. Forward team, here is what you see, as you begin to get closer. Things you couldn't see at first because of the Perennial Wave’s inability to take notice of things protected by the power of the Divine, and that includes one such Divine, this very big Divine that’s so big it’s off the map to the west here.
Dre: Oh.
Austin: This is the Divine Artifice, and this is the thing that is leading the construction of the three Portcullis gates. What you see in front of you is a sort of…I mean, the actual token I've used is a sort of spiraled spinal column, but it’s sort of like the bones of a snake, of a giant space snake. Yes, that is correct, Dre, it is a space snake, in the chat. [Dre laughs] But it doesn't have…the thing that it’s done, seemingly, is all of its scales are effectively little robots of their own, and they are the things building the Portcullis gates, little drones flying around putting together these Portcullis gates. And so, it’s sort of like a battle— like, a construction station, and you can see sometimes they, like, return to the skeletal platform to get more materials and then fly back out. That thing is casting a sort of hazy miasma over this sort of whole Zone 1 area and has been hiding a number of Principality forces, a number of Pact forces, including four Apostolosian FANG units, which are…I’ll just look at my notes here to make sure I use the right word. Those are—I've written down here—a hypercat-style four-legged frame stylized like a snowy mammal. So, they are four-legged. We have Zoids. There's Zoids here. There's four Zoids here.
Keith: Sick. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Then there are— this is Apostolosian fun animal type things. Then there are four TALONs flying above. TALONs are another type of mech. I guess I should say: we have not seen you come across these mechs at all this season, because they're Pact mechs, and you haven't fought any Pact mechs. And I guess I should say another thing here is it means there's different sensory relationships to these things, right? As a reminder, the other stuff was like, oh, you could smell a sort of, the smell of blood or something when the Divine power was in the air. Here we have mostly Elemental and Arcane stuff, and I want to say Elemental stuff has a sort of touch sensation, so these Apostolosian mechs, as you get close to them, you know, maybe you feel an itch somewhere on your body or, like, a film on your tongue or like something’s caught in your eye. 
And as you see your first Columnar mech, you feel a sort of…they’re Arcane, right? A sight. There are, like, floaters appearing in your eyes or, like, there’s a sort of an aura, you know, a sort of visual aura that shows up, kind of bright and painful, or there's, like, the sort of doubling of the sun’s light, you know, or in this case, the light gathering at the supermassive black hole just to the galactic north of you, as you see your first Columnar mech, which is called an ORB. It’s actually called— [chuckles] it’s actually called the ZFC-Wizard-ORB. [Sylvia laughs] The Columnar mechs are all based on the Wizard frame, and so there’s, like, the ZFC-Wizard-TOME, the Wizard STAVE, the Wizard CLOAK, the Wizard ORB, the Wizard TALISMAN, et cetera. Most of those are not here. They will be coming in through the Portcullis gates if they get turned on, because they don't have the super speed stuff that the Apostolosians have. 
And then there's also a big TUSK unit, which is not boar shaped. It’s just a regular walks-on-two-legs humanoid mech, but it does have, like, a boar theme going on. It has, like, a big shield with big, you know, horns on the shield or big, like, spikes on the shield. 
So, that is the first set of things that you've learned here, and on a 10, I'll give you this too: one of these other Columnar mechs, the CLOAK, you've dropped in and you've noticed one of them here. You'll see it says CLOAK 4, suggesting there's at least three other cloaks out there somewhere on the map, and you've seen this one. You know, you've managed to catch this one in your scanners. The Wizard CLOAK mechs from Columnar are a variation of their Wizard frame that is about getting behind the lines, cloaking itself with a sort of invisibility field and stabbing stuff and blowing stuff up. 
So, that’s your stuff here. You can position yourself how you want to be positioned here. You can— you'll get the drop on them, effectively. They were not ready for this, but they have landed. They are there, you know? But I would say that they're, like, they have not taken off yet. You know what I mean? Those TALONs are still on the ground. They're not flying above. The FANGs are in some sort of resting position where they're all just kind of hanging out. It looks like a pack of dogs or something. All right. Leap.
Keith: Hi.
Austin: I have a bigger reveal for you.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: And I'm going to give you a little bit, actually, because of this success. Let’s see if I can make sure I do this the right way.
Keith: Great.
Austin: So…
Keith: Um…
Austin: Yes?
Keith: I also have, mm, one or two moves in mind to replace my move that does nothing. 
Austin: Sure. What do you want to replace it with?
Keith: Well, I was thinking of, uh, this is my less fun one. This is Requisitions from Commander. I can add two of the Ardent features from the Commander class to my tank.
Austin: Mm. Mm-hmm.
Keith: Which sounds fun. That sounds very useful. Or, based on how I played Leap during the finale, I could take a move from Icon.
Austin: Oh, for sure.
Keith: And I was thinking of Bardic Inspiration: “At the beginning of a sortie, Hold 3. You may spend this Hold one-for-one to add d4 to any roll before or after it is made.”
Austin: You should do that. That’s very funny.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: As long as you— but you have to, like, give me— you have to sell it to me when you do it.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You know what I mean? You gotta tell me: how are you— what’s the name of that move?
Keith: Bardic Inspiration.
Austin: Bardic Inspiration. So you gotta tell me what—
Keith: I have to bardicly inspire.
Austin: You have to bardicly inspire. You have to deliver some sort of word of wisdom. You have to hit a catchphrase.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Austin: You have to, you know, sing a shanty. I need something.
Keith: Right. That’s what I was thinking, was sing a shanty.
Austin: You know, yeah, something like that. All right, so, do you see these zones that I've covered the map with?
Keith: I do.
Austin: All right. Those are the different sectors inside of Zone 3.
Keith: Love a good sector.
Austin: And I will be…let’s see here. Let’s make these— I have to ungroup these, and I'm going to move the yellow zone up for a second to reveal— and I really hope that this works right, 'cause we don't do a lot of this type of thing, and I think it’s actually going to— I think it’s actually going to fuck up, so wait, give me one second. Everybody look away from the screen for just, like, two seconds.
Keith: Okay. Eyes are shut.
Sylvia: All right.
Dre: Okay. All right.
Ali: Eyes are closed.
Austin: Your eyes are shut. I appreciate that. Please keep them closed for a second. I need to move this to this layer. That didn't work. I need to move… [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Dre: [feigning] Whoa, this is crazy!
Austin: Hey, it worked! I think it worked! Do you see—
Dre: Can we look again?
Keith: That’s working?
Austin: Well, what do you see?
Dre: Oh, there’s colors.
Austin: What’s behind the colors?
Keith: There's, like, a little maze.
Dre: A maze?
Austin: There's a maze.
Ali: There’s a maze.
Keith: There’s a maze.
Dre: Ah, fuck yeah, dawg!
Austin: So.
Keith: Oh, now I understand. Okay.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: This is a maze of servers and, like, spouts and things that are producing the Perennial Wave and vents and all sorts of other shit. You gotta go through this maze, my man. You gotta get through this maze and escort Cas to somewhere in the red sector, somewhere in— I'll make a little mark of it here in bright blue, so that we don't— I mean, we can tell what it is.
Keith: So, is my entrance here?
Austin: Your entrance is the middle, like— it’s actually where it says Leap’s Crew.
Keith: Oh, okay. So, this.
Austin: So, somewhere in the red sector is where you have to get to, yes.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Let me move this just a little bit so you get a little bit more. Yeah. It’s exactly there.
Keith: And is this a real map?
Austin: Oh, it’s a real map, my friend.
Keith: I mean, sorry, a real maze. Yes, real maze.
Austin: It’s a real maze.
Keith: Okay. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Austin: Uh huh. And, you know, if you want to use some moves to get more intel as you move through this maze, you can totally do it, but right now, all you have is the sector orange, this top right one, which I'll clear. Boom. 
Keith: Okay. Yeah, I have a move for this.
Austin: I bet. And because you got a full success here, I'll just say it outright: you hear things stomping in the distance, and I'm going to put them right on the map for you, except you just know what zone they're in. You don't know exactly…
Keith: Yeah. All right.
Austin: You don't know where in the zone they are necessarily. So, I'm just going to put them on the top here. There's Tier 5 Nanobeast 1, and here’s Tier 5 Nanobeast 2.
Keith: Uh oh.
Austin: Yeah. It’ll be fine. Just don't get caught.
Sylvia: Oh.
Keith: Damn.
Ali: Oh, look how beastly they are.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I know.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh. 
Sylvia: Oh.
Austin: You truly have no idea. I'm going to send…who wants to see something funny?
Sylvia: Me!
Keith: Me.
Austin: You don't get to.
Dre: Me!
Austin: I'm going to send it to Sylvi.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Dre: Aww.
Keith: I don't get to?
Austin: You'll get there eventually, potentially. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: All right.
Austin: There, Sylvi.
Sylvia: Okay, let me look at this. Holy shit!
Austin: All right. [Dre and Sylvia laugh]
Sylvia: Austin!
Austin: It’s fine.
Keith: Is it Zeke from Zoids? Do I have to kill the dinosaur?
Austin: Zeke from Zoids is here, and— no. It’s fine. Feel free to move yourself wherever you want into the zones you'd chosen before. You know, like I said, the stuff in Zone 1 is not, like, fully operational, at this point. You know, I think there's probably— I'd say maybe one of the FANGs and one of the TALONs are kind of, like, on watch duty, but they are not expecting this counterattack or this attack from you, and so you're getting the drop on them. Likewise, that cloak that you've caught out is not expecting you. So, feel free to move yourself wherever and tell me who wants to go first. Let’s start with the people in Zone 2 and the Blue Channel, the folks outside of the interior, and then we'll come back around to you, Leap, after that.
Keith: Sure.
Ali: And I just want to make absolutely sure. I can presumably see Cori, Levi, Thisbe, Mow.
Austin: 100%. Easy.
Ali: It’s just not this interior zone?
Austin: It’s just not the interior zone. That is correct.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: You can see everything in Zone 2. You can see everything in Zone 1.
Ali: Okay. And what’s this swirly thing in Zone 0?
Austin: That is the— oh, Zone 0? If you scroll down a little bit and look at the zoomed out Zone 0, you can see the big skeleton. That is the Divine Artifice, which is the Columnar Divine that is the sort of central building platform for these Portcullis gates. It has produced the sort of drone robots that are constructing these three Portcullis gates so rapidly. That’s the thing it does.
Keith: Sometimes called drobots.
Sylvia: Didn't want to say it.
Austin: Sometimes called drobots. No, Drobot is from Spyro, is from Skylanders. 
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Is that true?
Sylvia: You're right! [Keith laughs]
Austin: He’s all about that dro. Yeah. Yeah.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah, yeah.
Keith: It’s true. It’s true.
Austin: I was trying to think of Drobot’s name literally 24 hours ago, so…
Sylvia: Yeah? 
Keith: That’s very funny.
Austin: I didn't get there.
Sylvia: Why?
Keith: Wow. Well, there you go.
Austin: It’s complicated. Don't worry. I'll tell you later.
Sylvia: Tell me later.
Austin: Uh huh.
Ali: I don't see the skeleton, but I believe you.
Austin: Wait, do you not see it on…? If you scroll down to where, like, there's the zoomed out view.
Sylvia: It’s more of a spiney swirl.
Austin: It’s a spine. It’s a spiney swirl.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Yeah, that’s what I meant by the swirl. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, that thing. It’s a skeleton.
Ali: That’s the one I was asking about. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Uzumaki influence from Austin.
Austin: That’s true. Yeah.
Keith: Can you believe that they made Skylanders and they killed Spyro with it? They used him to build Skylanders, and then Skylanders killed him?
Sylvia: Yeah, dude. I can— that’s all video games.
Dre: Yeah, I can believe that, yeah. It was Activision, right?
Austin: It was.
Sylvia: Definitely.
Keith: Yeah, it was, yeah.
Dre: That makes sense.
Janine: They kill him in universe, or do you mean, like, the franchise?
Keith: The franchise.
Sylvia: They shot him with a gun.
Janine: Okay. [laughs] 
Keith: They shot him with a gun.
Dre: Drobot actually did it.
Austin: Oh my god. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Drobot shot him with a gun. [laughs] 
Keith: Well, I mean, if you look at Drobot, he just looks like Spyro v2.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. He replaced him.
Janine: It was a dro-by.
Keith: He replaced him.
Sylvia: A dro-by. [Sylvia and Keith laugh]
Austin: You have any other questions about where things are or what they're doing?
Sylvia: I think we—
Dre: Yeah, where’s Drobot? [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Did we get an answer on the little, like, black squares here, on what these are? Did I miss that?
Austin: Little black squares? What—
Sylvia: On Zone 2.
Austin: Oh, yeah. They're, like, places you could hide behind.
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Imagine that this place is kind of— you know, I could take some of those and make a bunch more, you know? 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: There are a bunch of little— oh, that’s a circle. That’s not what I want. I want a square.
Janine: It’s the end of Mass Effect 1?
Austin: It’s the end of Mass Effect 1. You're on the Citadel. You're closing in close on Sovereign, and there's a bunch of stuff that you could hide behind if you so chose, you know?
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: It’s like, you know, big vent ports and viewports and other types of ports. Chest-high cover.
Sylvia: Oh, Gears of War. Okay. Yeah.
Austin: Gears of War.
Ali: Uncharted.
Austin: Uncharted.
Janine: That Star Trek movie game.
Austin: That Star Trek movie game. [Ali laughs quietly] It specifically and will always be, for me—
Keith: Max Payne 3.
Austin: It’s Max Payne 3.
Sylvia: Sorry, you said Uncharted. Uncharted and Max Payne 3 both got me picturing Brnine in a Hawaiian shirt, so.
Ali: Mm.
Dre: Mm!
Austin: Oh, Brnine in a Hawaiian shirt is a fucking look.
Ali: Mm.
Dre: That’s a vibe, yeah.
Austin: For me, it’s always playing through The Last of Us for the first time and getting to the dam and walking through it for the first time, [Sylvia laughs] where you're, like, having a conversation, and it’s like, “Why is there all this chest-high cover during this conversation?”
Sylvia: Yeah. [Janine laughs]
Austin: “I'm definitely going to be shooting people in 17 minutes here,” and I sure was.
Sylvia: That’s environmental storytelling.
Austin: That’s right.
Keith: [chuckles] You could tell just from walking through it that it was going to suck.
Sylvia: Yep. [Austin chuckles] That’s The Last of Us!
Austin: Oh, I'm such a hater about that game. I really am. 
Cori’s Move [1:18:47]
Austin: What are you doing? Who’s up? Who’s making moves?
Sylvia: Is anybody…?
Austin: Cori, you're the one who’s the furthest forward.
Sylvia: Yeah, I was going to start dealing with some of these smaller, like…
Austin: All right.
Sylvia: The TALONs, probably, 'cause I can fly.
Dre: Fuck ‘em up, Socrates.
Sylvia: Sokrates is a different character in our universe.
Dre: Ah, shit, you're right.
Sylvia: Please.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah. My bad.
Austin: That’s right.
Sylvia: I played Sokrates for, like, a little bit on the faction game. I can see why it got confusing.
Austin: That’s true.
Dre: [laughs] That’s true!
Austin: That’s true. Damn. [Sylvia laughs] Worth saying: all of the little ones here [Sylvia: Yeah.] are Tier 3, so they're lower tier than you. The ORB and the TUSK are both Tier 4.
Sylvia: Okay. Should I…? Wait. Team.
Austin: And the CLOAK is also Tier 3.
Sylvia: Should I go fuck this ORB up instead? I'm trying to—
Austin: I'm just letting you know what the vibe is.
Sylvia: Yeah, no, I know. I'm talking to the crew.
Austin: Mm.
Dre: Hmm, hmm, hmm.
Sylvia: ‘Cause I—
Keith: You talking to my crew? Are you talking to Wilky Burkhard?
Sylvia: Yeah, Wilky. I need your takes here. No, I'm talking to the table. ‘Cause I'm Tier 4 and also have, like, Bane and Ruin and stuff, so like, I can handle pretty much anything on the field.
Keith: Jesus christ.
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Tier 4 with Ruin?
Sylvia: I have one Bane weapon and one Ruin weapon, yeah. They're both Messy though, so, you know.
Dre: Mm.
Janine: Give your soul to a god. It works out.
Austin: Mm.
Sylvia: Yeah. [laughs quietly] So, my thinking was either I could Strike Decisively immediately against these smaller units—
Austin: You sure could.
Sylvia: —and clear out some of the…fucking MOBA brain made me want to say creep wave. Sorry, it’s DOTA now.
Austin: Damn. Brutal.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Don't fuck up the wave equilibrium.
Sylvia: It’s fine. I'm solo laning. [Dre chuckles] I feel like taking out the flying ones seems like a good start for me, but if other people think that—
Austin: Yeah, you could totally Strike Decisively, because you're— actually, wait. Can you Strike Decisively? Oh, yeah, 'cause you have—
Sylvia: I'm Tier 4.
Austin: No, you take— you would be able to, uh…is it Strike Decisively? I thought you could Strike Decisively against something two steps under you.
Sylvia: Hold up.
Austin: I believe it’s two steps under you.
Sylvia: Oh. Well, what if my…?
Keith: Yeah, but if you've got Ruin or Bane.
Austin: It does not work like that.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Oh, okay.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: Got it.
Austin: Ruin allows you to attack without disadvantage, et cetera.
Keith: Got it. Sure.
Sylvia: Well, then I'm going to go for the bigger one. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Okay. You would be able to attack with advantage, but you don't get to just jump to— yeah. You get it.
Sylvia: Yeah. I guess it’s just more, um…
Austin: I mean, I guess actually what I should say is you've gotten the drop on them. All of them effectively, for this first round, except for the front FANG and the front TALON are actually at— briefly all have the Surprised, uh…what do you call it?
Sylvia: Risk?
Austin: Risk. Yeah.
Dre: Oh, yeah, 'cause you—
Austin: Which will clear in a moment, right? After everybody goes once, basically.
Sylvia: So, wait.
Austin: So, presumably—
Dre: You know, I was just thinking it also makes sense for Cori to go first, 'cause I forgot Cori has Haste now.
Sylvia: I do have Haste, yeah. Good point.
Austin: Yeah, that’s right. And Haste says, was it, “Whenever there’s a question about who goes first…”
Sylvia: It’s me.
Austin: It’s you.
Sylvia: “If multiple characters with Haste are all attempting to be the quickest, they act simultaneously.”
Austin: It’s true.
Sylvia: But I don't think anybody else got this move. Gonna eat those words. Yeah, I'm going to go for the top two TALONs, then. We got a lot of, like, ground units.
Austin: Cool.
Sylvia: I know we have people who can do ground-to-air, but I feel like aerial support is kind of Cori’s specialty.
Austin: Sounds good. 
Sylvia: Is this a— I'm going to probably be using, um…I wonder if I should get into melee range here, because after I do this, I can get at the bigger targets and also draw aggro. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Mm. What are your weapons on the Perimerion?
Sylvia: Yeah. My weapons on the Perimerion are the same as they have been, but to catch people up, 'cause it’s been a minute…
Austin: It has.
Sylvia: My carried weapon are my Twin Sickles four, [Austin: Mm.] which is melee, two sickles in each hand. Bane, Messy, Two Hands, Decisive. And then I have my Seraphic Array, which is Ranged, Ruin, Drain 2, Messy, and Mounted.
Austin: And what is that visually?
Sylvia: That is using the…the way I've described it is it basically launches off the feathers from the Perimerion’s wings as projectiles.
Austin: Right. Right, okay.
Sylvia: And they will slice through [Austin: Perfect.] Cori’s enemies, yeah.
Austin: Okay. So yeah, go for it. You want to slide in and try to hit TALON 2?
Sylvia: Yeah, I think so. 
Austin: [cross] That’s the closest one.
Sylvia: [cross] Start with the closest one.
Austin: Well, yeah, TALON 1 is closer, but it’s…
Sylvia: But it’s not Surprised.
Austin: But it’s not Surprised, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. And so this would be…? I mean…
Austin: This would be a Strike Decisively.
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Which I believe it is a…it’s been a minute. It’s a Clash specifically.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: What is your Clash?
Sylvia: +2.
Austin: All right, 2d6 plus 2.
Sylvia: That’s an 8.
Austin: All right, that is an 8. When you get a 7-9, you succeed but choose one: you overreach or underestimate, take a risk; you waste ammo or words, losing use of a weapon until you can rearm or losing the weight of some bargaining chip or piece of leverage; or you strike carelessly, causing collateral damage beyond your expectations.
Sylvia: [chuckles] Well, that always goes well for me.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.
Sylvia: That last one. Hmm.
Austin: Also, do you want to move yourself up to where—?
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Let me pop up over here. Uh, I could— I don't want to take a risk, like, immediately, if I'm being honest.
Austin: Sure.
Sylvia: So, I kinda…something’s fun about Cori, like, not having piloted this in a while, [Austin sighs] and like, doesn't— like, overestimates how sharp the blades are, and they get caught in something.
Austin: Oh. Yeah, that’s fun.
Sylvia: And so she has to go get them.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Should I just, like…?
Austin: You know, you knock this thing— I'm going to put it back on the map, actually. You knock this thing. You cut this thing, like, in half and kind of knock it away, and it goes flying away with your sickles in it.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: To the north here. It’s dead.
Sylvia: It’s been a year. Nobody’s been sharpening them.
Austin: Uh huh. Yeah, that’s actually very funny. Yeah. You've gotta keep your stuff, you know, upkept. All right. That’s Cori.
Sylvia: Yep.
Austin: Who’s up?
Dre: Mm…
Austin: Levi, Thisbe, Mow, Brnine.
Janine: I could go.
Austin: All right. I say do it.
Thisbe’s Move [1:25:14]
Janine: Yeah. I kind of just want to run into that group of FANGs and [cross] be a nightmare?
Austin: [cross] Fuck ‘em up. Yeah, uh huh.
Janine: Yeah. Thisbe, I would say, in her year, hasn't not fought. She has probably—no pun intended—when she has to fight, been a little bit more guerrilla than normal. [Sylvia laughs, Austin sighs]
Sylvia: Sorry. You set it up!
Janine: [laughs quietly] Because she’s been on her own.
Austin: Uh huh.
Janine: I did. I saw it coming.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: I tried to give it— yeah. [Sylvia chuckles] But Thisbe is as dangerous as she’s ever been. Specifically, I took two new moves, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] 'cause we got to level up twice. The two moves I took were Red Comet and White Devil, which are both Soldier moves.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Red Comet says, “Any Astir you channel gains an extra artifact part called Uncanny Speed, and its power capacity is increased by 1.”
Austin: Mm.
Janine: White Devil is, “Stories of your talent and your Astir have spread far and wide among your enemies. Anyone other than your rival—who I don't have—who would act against you while piloting your Astir must take the Risk ‘Intimidated’ to do so. This Risk is cleared if they witness your Astir be seriously damaged, if you flee from fighting, or if they have reason to believe you aren't piloting it.”
Austin: Very powerful. Very good.
Ali: Power of yaoi.
Austin: Uh huh. That’s right.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: That’s right! 
Austin: Red Comet and—
Sylvia: Fujo Frame is here! [Sylvia laughs] Sorry.
Austin: God. [Dre laughs]
Ali: Janine, if you, uh… [Ali and Dre laugh]
Janine: Uh huh?
Ali: Those moves are referring to Char Aznable and Amuro Ray.
Janine: Yes. Oh, I figured.
Austin: Yeah, okay, good.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Making sure.
Janine: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: What’s Uncanny Speed do? I guess it’s an artifact, which an artifact is a type of thing in the game which lets you do something really well is how I remember it. Let’s see here. Parts, Artifact. Da-da-da-da-da. Here it is. High quality artifice provides an edge when it’s needed most. It gives you advantage whenever— before or after the roll, towards the task the artifact is designed for. So, rushing in would let you use that, for instance, which is great.
Janine: Yeah. That’s the…
Austin: Yeah, okay. So, are you just running in there and hitting one of these things?
Janine: Um… [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Also, wait, do you have to choose your Burn Bright things? Or are those— I forget if that changed how that works.
Janine: I picked my two.
Austin: You picked them. Okay. Cool.
Janine: Yeah. I have Quintessence Cannon 1, which is Ranged, Ruin, Hidden, Limited.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: And Propulsion Sweep, gain plus aerial.
Austin: Ah, so Thisbe’s flying around. Or could be flying.
Janine: Not right now, but it’s on the table.
Austin: Could be flying around. Yeah, uh huh.
Janine: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so Thisbe is just going to tear into that group like a monster.
Austin: All right. With Mow, presumably.
Janine: Yes.
Austin: Okay.
Janine: I kind of also imagine this— I think it’s probably getting ahead, because I think this is more about, like, getting in there and getting the first swipes in.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: But I think this is going to be a Mow throwing punches and Thisbe throwing, like, sparking touch hits where she can connect.
Austin: Mm. Sure. Makes sense.
Janine: Magic punching.
Austin: All the magic punches that you can now do.
Janine: Throwing in. It’s been a while. Gotta warm up.
Austin: It’s been a while. It’s true.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: All right. Give me a— similarly, because these three bottom ones I should mark are all— FANGs 2, 3, and 4 are all Vulnerable, they're all, um, ready to be Struck Decisively at. What’s the word for that? Again, it’s been a minute since we've played this game. Uh…
Janine: Eepy? 
Austin: They're eepy. They're all eepy. [Sylvia chuckles]
Dre: Mm.
Austin: They are Defenseless. Those three are Defenseless, because you're getting the drop on them right now.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: So yeah, FANG 2, let’s say, you're hitting.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Give me 2d6 plus Clash. What’s your Clash?
Janine: Uh, 3? One second. Yeah. No, 2.
Austin: 2.
Janine: It’s 2. 
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
Janine: I was thinning of Channel.
Austin: Channel’s 3.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: And take advantage, because you're— so, 3d6 plus 2.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: Because you're moving super fast over there.
Janine: Hell yeah.
Austin: 5 plus 5 plus 2 is 12. That is a success, crushing, let’s say, FANG 2 off the board.
Janine: [clapping in time] Get! Killed!
Austin: Do you want to move yourself over to where FANG 2 was a second ago?
Janine: Yeah. I do.
Austin: All right. An opening salvo that is going very well so far. Brnine or Levi.
Dre: Hmm.
Austin: While you still have the chance to get the drop on these guys.
Levi’s Move [1:30:25]
Dre: Yeah, what’s the deal with this CLOAK thing?
Austin: That is one of the Columnar units that can cloak and hide its presence. It’s just that right now you've gotten the drop on it, and it has not hidden its presence. It has not activated its cloaking array to disappear.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: It is—
Dre: Feels like—
Austin: Go ahead.
Dre: Oh, go ahead.
Austin: It’s a close range mech. It’s designed for getting— either getting in close and setting explosives, like setting mines, or tearing into things with a special sort of acidic claw that it has.
Dre: Mm. That sounds like a thing we should try to take out before it can cloak.
Austin: Yeah, sounds right. [Dre laughs]
Dre: Oh, shit, I just accidentally closed the sheets. [Sylvia chuckles] Before I attack, I also want to roll, if you think I can, my mobility move: “When you're fighting somewhere with the room to be acrobatic and mobile, roll plus Defy.” 
Austin: Oh, yeah.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Yeah, you absolutely can do that. What’s that give you? Oh, it lets you hold a certain amount, right?
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Yep. Go ahead and give me that Defy roll.
Dre: And then I can basically do stuff with it, yeah. Uh…
Austin: What’s your Defy?
Dre: Uh, +1?
Austin: +1. 2d6 plus 1.
Dre: +1.
Austin: Hey, that’s a 10.
Dre: 10. 
Austin: Damn.
Dre: So hold 3. All right.
Austin: It’s funny, 'cause both Levi and Leap are fairly low level compared to everybody else, I think.
Keith: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Austin: But, you know, I trust both of you to make effective characters despite that. You get some cool moves going. You get some dice rolling your way.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: There's a 10. Cool.
Dre: All right. Yeah, I don't need to do anything fancy. I'm just going to hit this thing with my big-ass sword.
Austin: All right. So, Strike Decisively plus— 'cause this also should be— is Defenseless, so I'll update its thing to say 0.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: As you've gotten the drop on it in this initial roll, or in this initial arrival.
Dre: And, okay, my sword is Tier 3, but it has Ruin. Does that give me any, like, bonuses for hitting something that’s—? 
Austin: No.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Ruin and Bane let you hit things higher than you.
Dre: Right.
Austin: They don't give you benefits on things equal or lower than where that would put you.
Dre: Okay. That’s what I thought.
Austin: Yep. Mm-hmm.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, so, Clash, which is also +1…
Austin: Which, again, describe to me what you're doing a little bit here, 'cause this is the first time [Dre: Mm.] we've seen Levi in combat in Armour Astir.
Dre: Right, yeah. Roleplaying games.
Austin: Obviously, we had the Questlandia fight, but that’s kind of it.
Dre: Sure, yeah. What does this mech look like?
Austin: Uh, the CLOAKs are— or the Wizard frames— the Columnar Wizard frames are pretty straightforward. I think of them as being boxy and rectangular in their limbs and stuff. I really think of Columnar mechs as having a sort of Lego-like quality. They're very toyetic. [Sylvia chuckles] They're very, like, they click and clack together. They're modular. And especially this whole Wizard frame idea is there is a core frame under there, and what goes around it changes. Like, that’s even true of the ORB, which is a big orb. I didn't do a good job describing this, but there's just a Wizard frame. There's just, like, a humanoid mech frame inside of a giant floating orb.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: Somewhere in there. You don't get to see it. I'll describe the ORB better in a second. Whereas this one is like, it’s that frame wearing a cloak that can be charged with a sort of, you know, invisibility power.
Dre: Yeah. Levi in combat looks very, like, shonen, the character who’s just so fast that, like, they're just fucking bouncing off everything at all times.
Austin: Sure. Yes.
Dre: And then Levi’s gravity sword allows him to kind of, like, rise and fall in very unnatural ways. So it’s very much, like, bob and weave, slipping around until you leave me an opening.
Austin: Mm-hmm. If you made an anti-mech character in Gravity Rush, where you can change the…
Dre: Yeah, 100%.
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Awesome. All right. Give me your Strike Decisively with your Clash. Oh, wait, you did. No, that first one was your Defy. That’s what that was. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Yeah, that’s the Defy. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: That was your mobility roll.
Dre: Bazinga.
Austin: That’s a 12. So, yes. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: So, yes, bazinga.
Austin: So, yes, bazinga, as it were. [Keith laughs]
Janine: I was going to, like, jokingly call you, like, Mr. Sixes. I was trying to, like, work out some sort of, like, kind of horrible, like… [Dre laughs]
Ali: Hmm.
Keith: Mr. Sixoplix.
Janine: I was, like, trying to find a name, like Jackie Sixfingers or whatever, but like…
Dre: Mm. Mr. Satan.
Austin: Right, uh huh.
Janine: You keep rolling 6s. I just…
Austin: You do keep rolling 6s.
Janine: How?
Austin: I don't know.
Sylvia: Rolling bug eyes, 'cause it’s 6s. [Dre laughs]
Austin: Is that what we call that?
Sylvia: That’s what I call it.
Keith: Dre has rolled four times and has rolled a 6 in three of those four today.
Austin: Well. Has a history.
Dre: Granted, that’s a lot of dice.
Keith: Sorry, five times. Oh, no, that’s yesterday. That’s yesterday.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Or last session.
Austin: Last session.
Keith: Not yesterday.
Dre: Last session, yeah.
Austin: All right. Brnine.
Janine: Dre just comes in here to get the bad rolls out secretly while we're all gone.
Austin: Oh, yeah. [Keith chuckles] And to be clear, Levi, you—
Dre: Oh yeah, so—
Austin: Yeah, go ahead. Tell me what this looks like as you destroy this thing.
Dre: Ooh. Um…
Austin: This sword just cuts through it? Like, it just does it.
Dre: No, I don't think so. I think it’s much more of, like, it’s like cutting off little bits and pieces until it can't move anymore.
Austin: Ah, okay. Sure.
Dre: And then cutting straight through it.
Austin: Fun. Yeah. Boom. Another one off the board. 
Brnine’s Move [1:35:49]
Austin: Blue Channel. Brnine.
Ali: Hi. Hello.
Austin: What’s up? What’s your play?
Ali: Yeah, I am floating, you know, chilling.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Just vibing. [Austin chuckles]
Ali: Uh huh. I feel like maybe I should snipe this boar?
Austin: Sure. You can…you are at a Tier 5, right? So you could do that. You could Strike Decisively.
Ali: Oh.
Austin: Even though it is only at a…it’s only at one and not at zero defenses, because it’s a tier— not because it’s a Tier 4 character, but because it’s a— oh, I'm actually wrong about this, because it is a Tier 4. Your gun is a Tier 5, right? So you could—
Keith: It’s a Surprised Tier 4.
Austin: It’s a Surprised Tier 4, which means that it has one Risk. It’s also a side character instead of being an extra, which means it has two defenses that you have to clear before it is— it needs two Risks or Perils before it is Defenseless. 
Ali: Mm.
Austin: I guess maybe that’s a thing worth saying, 'cause we haven't played Armour Astir in a minute. The way this game works is you give enemies Risks or Perils [Ali: Yep.] until they're Defenseless, and then—
Keith: Right.
Austin: This is as much for the audience as for us. And then you can Strike Decisively. The ORB and the TUSK both have one Risk right now, 'cause they've been surprised. That one will go away in a minute actually, once this round is over, effectively. But they— you know, they're not at zero like everyone else, because they're normally at two. But you could still snipe it, and you would get advantage, 'cause it is a tier higher, 'cause you are a tier higher than it.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Yeah, it feels like it just makes sense for the spaceship to take out the biggest thing here.
Austin: Totally. Yeah, that sounds like an Exchange Blows.
Ali: Uh, buh-buh-buh…
Austin: That’s 2d6 plus presumably either Clash or Crew.
Ali: Yeah, I mean, it’s with the Blue Channel, so it’s going to be a plus 3.
Austin: Plus 3. 2d6 plus 3. That is an 11. What is the— I guess I need to tell you what Risk it takes, unless…god, it’s been a while since we've done this. On a 10+, either your opponent takes a Risk or you take a Risk and you put your opponent at Peril. Which do you do?
Ali: Oh. Hmm. I feel like a way that we've done this in the past has been, like, put the thing in Peril and then give Blue Channel, like, Spotted [Austin: Yeah.] or, like, Uncloaked or whatever?
Austin: Yeah. That makes sense. Let’s do that.
Ali: And I feel like that will help the ground team a little bit, to have that guy in Peril too.
Austin: I think that’s true, yeah. So, let’s give it—
Dre: Is a Peril like two Risk? I'm trying to remember mechanically how that works, sorry.
Austin: No, Peril is a Risk that can't be cleared through narrative circumstances during a sortie.
Dre: Ah. Okay.
Austin: So, for instance, in this case, I think that the Peril— you can tell me what the Peril is, actually, I believe. You give something a Peril, whereas it takes a Risk.
Ali: Like, Shot Through or something? [laughs] 
Austin: Yeah, totally. You know, maybe it’s, you kind of— you know, maybe you, like, destroyed its shield, you know? It normally has this big bulky shield, and so maybe that could be— maybe that's a good version of that.
Ali: Like, Defenseless or something?
Austin: Yeah. Defenseless but not in the other way. Not in the gameplay term, [Ali laughs] just in the adjective term, yes.
Keith: Defenseless, parentheses…
Ali: Vulnerable. Write Vulnerable.
Austin: Vulnerable is good. I like that. That’s good. All right. [typing] Vulnerable. Boom. All right. And a Peril, again, Dre, so like, that won't go away. It will be Vulnerable for the rest of the sortie.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Unless someone has a move that says”, “clear all, you know, “clear a Peril” or something like that, which I think maybe you have a move that does that, for instance. I guess I'm not sure. So yeah, boom. The sniper shot comes through, tears through its special shield, which sparks and kind of flies off into the starry sky. What’s—
Ali: [quietly] Ba-boom.
Austin: Sorry, go ahead?
Ali: That’s what it sounds like. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Austin: Oh, good, yes.
Ali: I was just doing a sound effect.
Austin: Yes, thank you.
Ali: I was going, “ba-boom.” [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Thank you.
Austin: What does it feel like for Brnine to be—
Keith: I think we should all start doing sound effects. [Ali laughs]
Austin: I agree. Please more sound effects.
Sylvia: Ba-boom.
Austin: What’s it feel like for Brnine to be back at the helm of this ship?
Ali: Um…difficult, I think.
Austin: Difficult. Yeah.
Ali: I think that there's— the way that I've been imagining Brnine is like, you know, they haven't been in the position to helm a ship, like, this intimately, question mark, you know?
Austin: Sure. Yeah.
Ali: If they were previously doing commander type stuff and are now captaining again.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: I think also, like, returning to the Blue Channel, but it’s just Hunting and, like, two other guys.
Austin: Yeah. It’s a little quiet.
Ali: Uh huh.
Austin: Interesting.
Ali: It’s a little, yeah, they're not in the groove yet.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: How Brnine got their groove back.
Austin: Oh, how Brnine got their groove back, again, yes. [Ali chuckles]
Keith: How Brnine got their groove back again.
Janine: This might be a good time to—
Ali: Well, it was how Broun got their groove back.
Austin: Oh, you're right.
Ali: And now Brnine has to get their groove back. [laughs] 
Janine: Oh.
Austin: Now Brnine has to do it too. I see.
Janine: I was going to say this might be a good time to mention I rewrote my Brnine bond or Gravity Clock.
Austin: Oh, what is it?
Ali: Ooh.
Janine: I kept “Brnine is capable but brittle,” but changed the description. “They deserve to live a better life than this. Get them to it.”
Austin: Aw. Aww.
Sylvia: Oh, that’s really good.
Ali: Wow.
Austin: That’s really good.
Sylvia: [amused] Can I read mine?
Austin: Yes.
Ali: Pfft.
Sylvia: “Did the captain always look this tired? Hope they can rest soon.” [Janine and Ali laugh]
Dre: Aww.
Austin: Jesus christ.
Janine: Ah…
Ali: Boy. Everybody’s looking at Brnine and being like, “The vibes are off.”
Austin: Aww.
Sylvia: You been sleeping, bro?
Ali: Wow, we need a vibe check.
Sylvia: Do you need a multivitamin?
Ali: What happened to their aura?
Austin: Their aura is gone. Yeah, no fucking aura. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Sylvia: Oh.
Ali: Ah, PALISADE ran long enough that we said “aura” on air. [laughs] 
Austin: I know. We really made it, didn't we? We made it through an entire, like— we started at the post, like, the 2023 vibe shift.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: And now we're into the aura times. It’s wild.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Wow.
Keith: I missed whatever the subtext to this is.
Ali: Don't worry about it.
Austin: Auras are a thing now. Don't worry about it.
Keith: Now? They're a thing now?
Sylvia: It’s like vibes but a different word.
Austin: It’s like vibes but a different word.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: It’s like vibes but a different word. Got it.
Ali: Vibe is over. Aura is in.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Aura is— yeah. [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: Update the lexicon.
Keith: Do you feel the last five years have been lacking in imagination, culturally? [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Eh, you know.
Leap’s Moves [1:42:49]
Austin: Leap.
Keith: Hi.
Austin: So, Cas'alear has come out from some sort of one-on-one meeting with Perennial, which only Cas'alear was allowed to be part of, looking perplexed but no less committed to cas’s plan. You know, and I guess it is up to you to lead them into the maze.
Keith: I am. We all are.
Austin: This maze of server banks. Yep. Let’s just use your tank for now, maybe, and we'll move—
Keith: Well…
Austin: That way we just have one. Unless you're breaking, you're splitting up.
Keith: Well, so, here’s what I have to read you.
Austin: All right, what are you doing, Leap? Yes.
Keith: My starting move is Fire Team Leader. I “lead a team of specialists, 10 or so strong, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] trained to provide on-foot support to channelers and address mundane threats.”
Austin: True.
Keith: “When you're leading your team, gain advantage when you would benefit from your scale.”
Austin: Mm.
Keith: And “Twice per sortie, you may make a move with your carrier’s crew trait without expending a use of it.”
Austin: I love this.
Keith: What I want to do is use 12 people to solve this maze very quickly using Dispel Uncertainties rolling with Crew.
Austin: You cannot solve the entire maze at once. 
Keith: Well, I want to do some of it.
Austin: The most you can do— I'm going to tell you. There is a sort of custom move here.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: You can roll Dispel Uncertainties to reveal— with a 10+, to reveal one thing safely, or to reveal two things and one of the Nanobeasts will move closer to you.
Keith: Got it.
Austin: As they begin to see you. On a 7-9, it’s you reveal one thing and the Nanobeast moves closer to you. And just to be as clear as I can be, for the listener at home, the thing that we are looking at is a sort of rectangle that has been covered up by, like, eight different colored blocks, and if you remove one of those, you get to see what the maze underneath it looks like to help inform your decision making as you move from one part of the block, you know, one part of the maze to the other parts, right? But it is a maze, and right now you can only see the entrance.
Keith: I would still gain scale benefit from having 12 people.
Austin: Yeah, I think so. 
Keith: Okay.
Austin: I think you take advantage on this, for sure.
Keith: Great. And I assume that it’s rolling with Know by default, even though it’s a custom move? Or what’s the deal with that? Is it…?
Austin: Rolling with— sorry, rolling with what?
Keith: Know.
Austin: What do you mean rolling— oh, oh. No, well...
Keith: Dispel Uncertainties normally roll with Know, but it’s a custom move, so I'm not sure.
Austin: Yes. Correct. You would— yes, by default, you’d be rolling with Know, correct.
Keith: Got it.
Austin: I thought you were saying N-O, and I was like, “What the fuck is N-O?”
Keith: I've been having that this entire season, so.
Austin: Yes. Know. Rolling with Know, K-N-O-W.
Keith: Right. [phonetically] Know.
Austin: [phonetically] Know. Exactly. But you could also roll with Crew if you wanted to instead, as per…
Keith: Right. I am going to use one of my two to start this maze.
Austin: Okay. So, 3d6.
Keith: 3d6. 
Austin: Plus 3. Really high Crew score.
Keith: 3d6 plus 3.
Austin: Take highest. Well.
Keith: Oh, so that’s— I just said the words.
Austin: You just said “3d6 plus 3” in the chat. You gotta put the little slash first. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Yeah. 3d6 plus 3. Okay, there we go.
Ali: It’s good practice.
Austin: It is.
Sylvia: Whoa!
Austin: That is a 13.
Ali: Wow.
Austin: 6 plus 4 plus 3 is 13.
Keith: Great.
Dre: Let’s go.
Austin: So, do you want to reveal one place safely or two places and a Nanobeast moves closer to you?
Keith: Two, please.
Austin: All right. Which two do you want to reveal?
Sylvia: Oh boy.
Keith: Okay. Friends.
Austin: ‘Cause presumably, what’s happening here narratively, partly you're sending scouts out into the maze. Partly you're hacking into the database to reveal camera, you know, views. You know, that’s— you can reveal any of the remaining black, red, green, yellow, blue, white, or purple, you know?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. Okay. My belief is that I should reveal…red and white.
Austin: Mm-hmm. There’s red.
Ali: Oh. You don't—
Austin: There’s white.
Ali: All right. All right.
Sylvia: Oh.
Ali: Not green? I guess you can't— no takebacksies. 
Sylvia: Aw. Can't go full Italian. [Ali and Dre laugh]
Keith: My thought process is that red will tell me where the entrances to red are.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: And that means that I either have to get to blue or go to green, and so I don't need to know purple.
Austin: Mm.
Keith: And so, because I either have to go to blue or green, I'd want to know what white is.
Austin: Right. Now.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: So, that’s my thought process.
Ali: Sure. I see.
Austin: On the cameras, you see Nanobeast 5, number 2, [Keith: Uh huh.] move into what was the white zone. It is—
Keith: Tell me what— tell me about the Nanobeasts?
Austin: I'm about to.
Keith: Okay. [Ali snorts]
Austin: It is a huge, stalking, monstrous, like, single long worm-like, snake-like being that sometimes coalesces to look more like a big dinosaur or sometimes becomes like a walking figure, because it’s made of the Perennial Wave. It’s made of Kalmeria itself, and so it can take a bunch of different forms. The thing that stays the same in this form is that it has these giant sharp teeth.
Keith: Mm.
Austin: But having not found you and having come to a wall, something changes. It splits into two. So, say farewell to Nanobeast Tier 5 number 2, and say hello to two different Nanobeasts Tier 4 numbers 1 and 2.
Sylvia: Oh no. You're going to have to play dodgeball against these Nanobeasts.
Dre: I was literally just typing it! [Dre and Keith laugh]
Sylvia: Yeah, I know you were.
Sylvia: Listen to Media Club Plus.
Austin: And I'm also going to make them smaller so that they fit inside of the hallways. I'm going to make you smaller also so that that’s also true for you. Aah, it’s hard to do that, but. You've gotta really zoom in here, Keith.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You're going to have to really zoom in here.
Keith: That’s okay. I was pretty close, as it was.
Austin: Yeah, but, you know.
Keith: Not a big deal.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Okay! So…
Austin: I'm going to just leave the Precipice as your thing moving through here, for now at least.
Keith: Yeah, that’s fine.
Austin: So, yeah. We have two Nanobeast Tier 4s in what was the white sector, and we have one still up in the green sector.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: And you see this— they've split, right? The thing that’s happened is this long, eel-like body has split into two smaller ones. They're still gigantic, right? They're still bigger than your tank. They're Tier 4. They could Strike Decisively at you if you run into them, right?
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Austin: And they are fucking, like, big hulking beast men, you know, prowling the thing. The icons for these Tier 4 ones look kind of like long-armed minotaurs, kind of, you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: They're like meeples, if you gave meeples horns, you know?
Keith: [bluffing] Yeah. They're like that.
Austin: They're like that.
Keith: I don't know what a meeple is.
Austin: Oh, it’s like a board game piece. It’s like a…
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Oh! Yeah, I know these guys. Sure.
Janine: Like a ball of ground beef, and sometimes you put breadcrumbs and, like, egg in it.
Austin: That’s right.
Sylvia: What?
Keith: [chuckles] Yeah, sometimes they go in a sub, and you eat it once in your life.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, god damnit. [Janine, Keith, and Austin laugh]
Austin: So, where are you going? 
Keith: Uh, that’s a great question. Um…how far— oh. Just to cover my bases.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: These walls: how high do they go?
Austin: They're walls. They're very— all the way to the roof, basically. They're very tall.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Um, you could scale them. It would take a Defy roll to scale a wall, but you could try.
Keith: Right. Right.
Austin: And it would take, like, gear, you know what I mean? You'd have to, like, bust out climbing gear, and you'd basically be, like, rock climbing up a gigantic server bank, you know?
Keith: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Um… [thinking sounds] I'm just trying to figure out, like, is there something else that I can do? And I really don't know if there is, besides start doing the maze.
Austin: Oh, sorry, and I should give you one other thing here, right?
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Because now you did reveal the red zone.
Keith: I did.
Austin: Which means you know where you need to get to, and it’s here.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: It’s the end of this part of the— I've zoomed in a little bit. For the listener at home, there’s kind of a dead end in the maze, and that is the sort of place that Cas'alear has to get to, in order to deliver this speech to everyone in the galaxy [Keith: Yeah.] by way of the Kalmeria, the Perennial Wave.
Keith: And I have a sort of procedural question about the way to navigate the maze.
Austin: Yep.
Keith: Oh, I accidentally got stuck in zoom-out mode. Okay. So, if you look at the edge of what was the red square here…
Austin: Yep. Mm-hmm.
Keith: You've got what looks like a hallway.
Austin: Could be.
Keith: Is that the wall of the red area, or is— inside, or—
Austin: Hard to say. You'd have to reveal black to know.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Then, that’s my question. Let’s see. Then, I guess my first step would be…um…can I—
Austin: You could sit here and keep rolling to reveal the maze. It’s just the Nanobeasts will get closer and closer to you.
Keith: Yeah, but they'll also split into fightable things, which is not [Austin: Potentially] necessarily a bad thing.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Potentially.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah, I'm going to roll one more.
Austin: Okay. 
Keith: I will reveal green.
Austin: Well, you have to roll.
Keith: With a roll.
Austin: You have to succeed, yeah.
Keith: I'm going to roll my normal, uh…
Austin: 2d6 plus Know?
Keith: 2d6 plus Know.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Or 3d6 plus Know. Are you still getting advantage…
Keith: I do benefit from my scale regardless.
Austin: Yeah. So, yeah, 3d6 plus Know.
Keith: Minus 1. Right?
Austin: Minus 1, correct. Minus 1, 'cause it’s your Know.
Keith: Oof.
Austin: Oh boy. Keith.
Keith: I have a 1, a 2, and a 1, and then a minus 1.
Austin: Yeah, so— yeah, uh huh. So, that’s a 2. You've rolled a 2.
Keith: That’s a 2.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: I have Bardic Inspiration. 
Austin: Uh huh. [Sylvia chuckles]
Keith: “At the beginning of a sortie, Hold 3. You may spend this Hold before or after a roll is made to add 1d4 to any roll.”
Austin: Okay, Keith, that’s only going to get you to a 6.
Keith: But can I do it twice? [Dre laughs] If I have Retrograde.
Austin: It says—
Ali: Oh, you can gain advantage—
Keith: Spend one Universal Hold—
Ali: Wait, wait, wait. Use your finale move to get advantage after the fact, right?
Keith: Right, that’s what I'm saying.
Austin: You could totally do both of those. Yep, mm-hmm.
Keith: I could do both of those; get one Hold from each.
Austin: You could.
Keith: To roll two d4s.
Austin: Well, you could roll— yes. You could spend your univer— yes. You could spend— I would say you should start by spending your Bardic Inspiration Hold, which you have three of.
Keith: Well, I don't know that even getting a 4 is enough to solve this. I think that it would still be 6— oh, I guess—
Austin: No, my point being: why would you spend your Universal Hold if you know—
Keith: Oh, I just thought maybe you weren't going to let me do two Bardic Inspirations in—
Austin: It says one-for-one.
Keith: It says one-for-one.
Austin: And you'll have to tell me what you're doing twice to justify it.
Keith: Right.
Austin: But you have to do that regardless of where the Hold comes from.
Keith: Um…
Austin: You know, the thing that begins to go bad here is, as you're trying to investigate this, you can hear the beasts growing closer to you in the labyrinth.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: People are getting nervous.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Cas'alear is like:
(as Cas’alear): Are you sure about this? You're sure you know where you're going?
Keith: Um…I think, uh…and I've gotta do two. Okay, I know the two things. Oh, here’s a— I have a quick question about the crew.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: Because the thing that it says for the tank ardent: “When I lead my team while helming it, the construct and its weapons are considered Tier 3.”
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Does that mean that they're all in this tank? 
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Or they're just right outside the tank, and I'm leading them from the tank.
Austin: They're in the tank. They're in the tank with you.
Keith: Okay. That’s a huge tank. 
Austin: Well, it’s like a— tanks have a lot of people.
Keith: Fits 13.
Austin: Well, you have a lot of people, it’s true. Maybe eight of them are in the tank.
Keith: Right.
Austin: And, you know, a few are outside.
Keith: Yeah. Uh…I would like to jazz them up [Austin chuckles] by telling them that we're going to head straight for the growling.
Austin: Oh. Okay.
Keith: We're headed to the eye of the storm.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: Me hearties. [laughs quietly] And, you know, full steam ahead. Can I bash through one of the walls?
Austin: You could Defy Danger to try to.
Keith: Oof. That’s tough, to fail that.
Austin: I'm not going to just say yes. Yeah.
Keith: I can't Clash the wall?
Austin: No. The wall is not an enemy.
Sylvia: I mean…
Austin: It’s not. It’s not a foe. It’s a wall.
Keith: Then…do you remember— you know Sea of Thieves? 
Austin: I do.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I don't know if anybody’s played that and had the moment where you take out your instruments and, like, everybody’s playing all at the same time.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Hell yeah.
Keith: And you're like, “What the fuck? This is sick.”
Austin: That’s what that game is about. 
Keith: “This is so sick.”
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Keith: Yeah. That is what that game is about.
Janine: That’s the first thing everyone does in that game.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: It’s the best thing in the game.
Keith: Well, it is the best thing in the game, but you know, it’s never as good as the first time. [someone chuckles]
Austin: Hmm.
Keith: But I think we've going to start singing one of those rowdy, you know, like, [imitates music] [Sylvia laughs] You know, one of those, like, really bouncy ones.
Austin: All right.
Keith: As we head tank-first into Nanobeast territory.
Austin: So, it sounds like you're spending two of your Hold from this move?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Bardic Inspiration, leaving you with one Hold there. You still have all three of your Universal Hold. Give me a 2d4.
Keith: And I would like to go down purple. There's only one purple direction to go, I guess.
Austin: There's only one purple direction.
Keith: Oh, wait. If I succeed this, then I get a thing revealed, so I shouldn't say where I'm going until it’s revealed.
Austin: That’s right. You should— yeah, mm-hmm.
Keith: 6!
Austin: So, 6 plus 2 is 8. 
Keith: Yep.
Austin: So, something— one of them moves closer to you, and you get to reveal one. You're revealing purple.
Keith: Uh, I'm going to reveal green.
Austin: You're going to reveal green instead. Okay. There’s green.
Keith: There’s green. All right. Great.
Austin: And one of these smaller Nanobeasts, the Tier 4 one…
Keith: Uh huh.
Austin: Tokens, here we go. Begins to stomp its way towards you, up out of the purple zone.
Keith: All right.
Austin: Or up towards the edge of the purple zone, I guess. It moves one closer, so that is where it is.
Keith: Thank you, Nanobeast, for telling me about this non-wall right here.
Austin: Well, I've just moved it.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: I didn't walk it there. 
Keith: Okay.
Austin: I moved it one zone closer, yeah. So, you don't know that for sure.
Keith: Okay. But don't they split when they bump into walls?
Austin: That is not what happens.
Keith: Oh.
Austin: Well, they have not bumped into a wall. They split when they do not find a line towards you.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: When they finish a movement and can't touch you immediately. And let me tell you, he’s right here. 
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: He’s right at the edge of this thing that goes south, so yes.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: That, you know.
Keith: And narratively I guess I've got to be here, because I'm heading towards them.
Austin: Well, you're heading towards— for the listener, there's a sort of fork entering the maze, and there's a sort of north fork and a south fork. You've moved through the north fork.
Keith: Oh, I can go up there. I was in a position where it looked like I couldn't go north.
Austin: Well, you're in the north one. The one you're in now is what I'm calling the north one.
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: This is the north one, and then this would be the south one, right? You see what I'm saying?
Keith: So, I could be— let me move my guy. I could be here.
Austin: No.
Keith: By going in from there.
Austin: No. No, no, no. No.
Keith: No?
Austin: It’s either— and I'll just draw two lines so that you can see.
Keith: Oh, I understand. 
Austin: Do you see what I'm saying?
Keith: I understand. Yeah.
Austin: You see it now?
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: That fork starts there. Sorry, for the—
Austin: Yeah, it’s either this way or this way.
Keith: Again, for the listeners, there's a— the dot— the ping that we can use to show people things, it’s really imprecise at this level.
Austin: Yeah. It’s kind of miserable, yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: It doesn't get smaller when you zoom in.
Austin: That’s right. So, you—
Janine: I have a—
Austin: Uh huh?
Janine: Oh, sorry, finish. I have a hypothetical question, but it can wait.
Austin: I was just going to say: so, you've gone this way. You've gone to the kind of first northern path here.
Keith: Yeah, yeah. And there is— and correct me if I'm wrong, because the name is kind of in the way. I can go south from here, correct?
Austin: You don't know. You can't see into the purple. Anything that’s obscured.
Keith: I mean directly, like, here. Like, this.
Austin: What? No, that’s a line.
Keith: Sorry. That’s a line? No, that’s not a line.
Austin: Well, you don't know what’s behind the purple.
Keith: Right, but until the line…
Austin: If there's a line there, you cannot go through it.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: You're just not understanding the exact thing that I'm asking. I couldn't tell if there's a wall here.
Austin: Oh.
Keith: Just because all the names and stuff are in the way.
Austin: Oh, I see, I see, I see, I see.
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Let’s get rid of the names for now, 'cause we know that’s you, right?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Austin: I'll clear your name off of it. Whoa. You got big.
Keith: [chuckles] I got really big.
Austin: Let’s get rid of the nameplate.
Dre: Ooh. 
Austin: Boom. Make that tinier. And let’s get rid of this nameplate, because again, we know who that is. Save settings. Make that tinier. Oop. Too tiny. Too tiny. Too big. There we go. 
Keith: There we go.
Austin: Yes. I'm going to make you even tinier. When you're moving, if you hold down ALT, it will—
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You can place it wherever you want. That’s the sort of trick.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: Yeah. It won't stay on the grid. 
Janine: So…
Austin: Janine.
Janine: So, hypothetically…
Austin: Mm-hmm?
Janine: This is a stupid question, but it’s in my head now. If you trapped a Nanobeast in a really strong box…
Austin: Mm-hmm?
Janine: Would it eventually turn into, like, a vapor?
Austin: It would turn in— eventually, it would turn back into the Perennial Wave, theoretically.
Janine: Oh, okay.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: Right? That’s what it’s made of.
Janine: Sure. Okay, that makes sense. 
Austin: Yep.
Janine: Right, right, right. Okay. 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Okay. That’s it.
Keith: I mean, there's— it went from 5 to 4.
Austin: It did.
Keith: And I can imagine that there's not a 0.5 tier.
Austin: That is correct. There is a— Sylvi, would you say there is a Tier 1?
Sylvia: Uh, hold— I mean, yeah.
Austin: Okay.
Sylvia: A?
Austin: Uh huh. [Sylvia laughs quietly] Sylvi got a little preview of these Nanobeast icons.
Dre: Ohh.
Austin: It’s, like, unfair that you did that to me, by the way. [Sylvia and Austin laugh quietly]
Dre: Is that when they get, like, beards and Oakleys?
Austin: When they're Tier 1. [laughs] When they're Tier 1 operators? Yes, 100%.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Uh huh.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Leap, one more maneuver here. 
Keith: One more maneuver here.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Okay. I would love to, uh…
Austin: I guess it’s worth saying, because I understand why you're like, “Well, I could just go south from here,” and I'm like, [Keith: Right.] “No, you don't know that, because you can't see into the purple.” You literally cannot see into the purple. We're talking about a big area here that’s being compressed into a map [Keith: Right.] that makes it look like it’s just down the hallway.
Keith: Right.
Austin: But it’s, like, a long hallway. You won't know if there's something or if there's a wall there or not until you get closer.
Keith: Okay. Then I'm going to…oh, here’s something. Remind me the rules between the 2 and the 1 on unlocking.
Austin: If you get a full success, you can unlock two of them, but a Nanobeast will move closer to you.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: If you get a 7-9, you can only reveal one.
Keith: And they move closer.
Austin: And they move closer. Yeah.
Keith: Right.
Austin: And if you get a full success, you can move one, and they'll stand still.
Keith: They'll stand— okay.
Austin: They won't hear you getting closer.
Keith: Okay. Then I'm going to…I’m going to remove this. I'm going to try and remove this purple one.
Austin: All right. Give me the roll. 3d6 minus 1, unless you're spending a thing for Crew.
Keith: [typing] 3d6 minus…
Austin: But you only get to do that one more time without starting to dip into the group Crew thing.
Keith: Yeah. Phew.
Austin: That is 5, 6, 7, 8…7. Not so bad.
Keith: Not so bad.
Austin: So, getting rid of purple.
Keith: Getting rid of purple, yeah.
Austin: And, as you may have suspected, there is, in fact, a wall there, Keith.
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: Unfortunately.
Keith: That’s okay.
Austin: But what that means theoretically is you've now moved to the edge of this, realized there's a wall here, and yes, the Nanobeast has moved forward. You are no longer only one step away from it, and it does, [Keith: Yeah.] yet again, split into two smaller Nanobeasts. Again, this time, instead of the fun minotaur design, what do we have? We've got weird Tier 3— I believe that the token website called these ice ghosts or fire ghosts or something?
Sylvia: Oh.
Keith: By the way, I can't believe that I have the specifically good against the Divine things [Austin: Mm-hmm.] and sniper weapons [Austin: Uh huh.] and came in here so that Cas wouldn't die instead of anybody else.
Austin: Everybody else is, uh, doing their own thing.
Keith: Yeah. That’s the— that’s also what I was saying.
Austin: And they are now back at the kind of starting area here, [Keith: Yeah.] back where you will have to go, unfortunately. I guess one of them would have gone a different direction, right? So, it would have come up and popped, started going down this way.
Keith: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Austin: So, this one is the one that is headed towards you.
Keith: Are these other ones moving or no?
Austin: No, it’s one moves per thing.
Keith: One moves. Okay.
Clocks Tick [2:05:38]
Austin: Oh, and I should say here, going back to— or, no, you got yourself out of that hard fail, right?
Keith: I did.
Austin: Okay. We have gone around a bunch here. I think we should tick the Impending Arrival clock by one, at this point.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Yeah, that seems like one full round.
Austin: I think that is— you know, I'd planned on not doing it every time someone went, but I think doing it every time everybody goes through a full round makes a little more sense.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: And that doesn't mean everybody gets to do one move. Sometimes it will feel like you need to do more for back-and-forth.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: But let’s tick a clock. We're one step closer to the first of the Portcullis gates coming on board. We are one step closer to Leap coming face to face with a Nanobeast. We are one step closer to, I guess, at this point, all of the various Altars here come online and are back in control of themselves. They are no longer defenseless. The TALONs all lift off into the sky, and there is something about them that makes it feel a little more— like, they're flying in formation in a way that makes them feel a little harder to get a bead on. They're, like, a little disorientating. And the FANGs come online around, Thisbe, you and Mow. And, you know, I'm not going to say you're not— oh, actually, they can't attack you without taking Fear, right? Because of White Devil, right? Isn't that how that works?
Janine: Uh, it’s a— let’s— 
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: They have to take the Risk “Intimidated” to act against me.
Austin: Intimidated. Yeah. So, they are, in fact, doing the classic wolf-like thing of circling around you but not quite getting ready to jump in at you, right? They're not Intimidated, because they're not acting against you, but they're thinking about it. And let’s give one more little action here. Levi, to your north, something shakes the Star Crossed ship, and you see a CLOAK, one of the remaining Columnar mechs, come online, come out of hiding. It’s on top of the Star Crossed ship, and it slams its daggers into the armor plating, causing it to begin to kind of spin out above you.
Keith: Hey, since when is there a Nanobeast down here next to the Blue Channel? [laughs quietly] I just noticed that.
Austin: That was the— it’s weird. That should be on the GM, like, plane, [Keith: Uh huh.] but for some reason, it’s still visible.
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: So I don't know what’s going on here. I'll try to move it again. That was the one that split into the first set of…
Keith: Oh, gotcha.
Austin: There we go. There we go.
Keith: This isn't a Nanobeast that’s started going for the Blue Channel after it was revealed.
Austin: No, correct. The Blue Channel is not—
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Yeah. The Blue Channel is very far away. Well, is hovering nicely above these Nanobeasts. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Yeah. Right. [Dre laughs] Far enough away to use Tactical Genius but not so far.
Austin: Yes, that you couldn't. In fact, I'm guessing, Leap, that you're feeding all of your crew’s, like, headset cameras and all of the unlocked maze cameras to the Blue Channel so that Brnine and Hunting can see that stuff.
Keith: Yep. I do have Comms and Encoding: clear communication between my crew and allied combatants.
[“Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt begins]
Austin: Love it. Great. I love that we've now begun playing Aliens, where, like, all of your crew members each can see a little bit of or each are sending back that kind of live, you know, shaky cam footage of what they're seeing in these dark hallways.
[song plays out]