PALISADE 16: Upon Our Grace Pt. 3
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Recap        1
Out-of-Character Discussion [0:3:45]        4
Discussion cont. [0:18:00]        13
In-Character Discussion [0:33:17]        25
The World Moves [0:49:03]        38
Reactions [1:07:55]        50
Action — Thisbe and Figure [1:21:47]        63
Phrygian and Cori [1:38:01]        77
Brnine [1:53:40]        92
Thisbe and Figure [2:02:44]        100
Phrygian and Brnine [2:13:51]        110
Cori [2:30:59]        125


Austin: PALISADE is a show about empire, revolution, settler colonialism, politics, religion, war, and the many consequences thereof. For a full list of content warnings, please check the episode description.
Recap
Austin: You kind of see the slow unfolding of what the repercussions are, because no one has shown up to be like, “Here’s Kenneth Marian Colver,” instantly. The first thing that happens is a follow up shot from one of these big cannons that is much closer to the ground and ends up clipping part of the top of the Glass Archive, and so like, you know, parts of the roof go flying past your— over your head, and their explosions are leaving a kind of ringing noise in your ear. This is huge and loud, and it’s going from warning shot to more direct fire, and then you see a sort of wing of five smaller mechs. These are Kesh units called Gambesons. There are people in there. They’re not in a cockpit. They’re just, like, caged and trapped inside of these things. The Gambeson is a unit that is almost always piloted by a criminal who has been conscripted by Kesh and forced to pay off their debt in combat. 
[“Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt begins playing]
Dre (as Figure): Captain Brnine? Are you there?
Ali (as Brnine): Uh, yeah.
Dre (as Figure): Uh, myself and Thisbe are in possession of the Kesh Viceroy.
Ali (as Brnine): Oh shit. 
Dre (as Figure): How should we proceed?
Ali (as Brnine): Are y'all good?
Dre (as Figure): Uh, yes. We are safe for the moment. However, it would appear that the settlement is under widespread attack. The commander of the Kesh forces has said they would withdraw upon receiving the Viceroy.
Ali (as Brnine): Wait, they’re here for him? [Austin laughs quietly]
Dre (as Figure): That is what they have broadcasted.
Ali (as Brnine): And y'all have him?
Dre (as Figure): Not on purpose, but yes.
Ali (as Brnine): Oh boy. Okay. Um…prioritize your safety. Bargain, I guess?
Dre (as Figure): Uh…okay?
Ali (as Brnine): Well, like, best case scenario is a ceasefire, right?
Keith (as Phrygian): Uh, hi. 
Keith: Phrygian’s also here.
Austin: Oh, you're— Phrygian’s here. [Janine laughs]
Keith: I also have a headpiece. I was just listening before.
Dre (as Figure): Sure. Hello. 
Ali (as Brnine): Oh, hi.
Keith (as Phrygian): Do you think that they’re actually gonna stop attacking if we give this guy back?
Dre (as Figure): Probably not.
Keith (as Phrygian): Okay. Then we should just run away.
Janine (as Thisbe): We don't want this guy, and we do not want him to be here.
Ali (as Brnine): I don't want this place to get destroyed.
Janine (as Thisbe): Yes. It’s desirable, if there is a chance to have this individual removed from Violet Cove, that is worth taking. And if it does not work, then we will destroy them, and he will also be destroyed, and that will also be an acceptable outcome.
Ali (as Brnine): Right. Sounds acceptable. Great. Thisbe, you're gonna take point on this one. I'll check back in when I'm on ground.
[cut]
Austin: Just to have our cake and eat it too, the thing that— those are the complex files that Asepsis digs through, and then Asepsis outputs a file called “spies.txt,” [Ali and Keith laugh] that gets uploaded quickly to your home files.
Ali: Asepsis has a popup that says, “Name this file.”
Austin: Yeah, exactly. [laughs] 
Ali: And Brnine very quickly said, “spies.” [laughs] 
Austin: Spies. These are the spies.
Sylvia: Nodding very enthusiastically. Great job, Captain. Good choice.
[song ends]
Out-of-Character Discussion [0:03:45]
Janine: I think Thisbe, like…uh…I want to say puts the Viceroy on the ground but then does a, like, [laughs quietly] Link dodge back a couple things.
Austin: Uh huh.
Janine: Like a couple just, like, little hop hop hops.
Austin: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Oh, I thought you were doing the backflip when the sword’s out. [Austin laughs]
Janine: Maybe the last one is a backflip. Maybe it’s hop hop flip.
Sylvia: Let’s go!
Austin: Hup hup hup hwep! Yeah, uh huh.
Sylvia: Mario style.
Austin: Right, yes. [Janine laughs]
Dre: Wahoo.
Austin: It lands, and the pilot closes the wings around it, like an iron maiden wing, you know, arms close inwards. And then lifts away, like as if the wings weren’t part of its mechanism at all. And there’s another beat, and the Blue Channel is briefly locked onto by the Kestral White, and then the lock goes away, as if internally there was some debate about whether or not they should engage you and use this opportunity to hurt you, given who you are, but then they leave.
Janine: I'm the new captain! [Austin laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Sometimes, you know, someone has bought into their own bullshit when it comes to “I'm a big noble knight who’s only here to serve my master and save him from those dastardly cultists,” and in this case, he, seeing the state that this guy is in, wants to—
Janine: That was the vibe I was getting, to be honest. I didn't want to say it, because I didn't want to be proven wrong, but I was like, mm, this guy seems…
Austin: Seems like what?
Janine: Bought in.
Dre: That he’s sniffing his own farts?
Austin: Bought in. Yes, that he— a hundred percent. [Sylvia laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: A hundred percent is. A hundred percent is, right?
Janine: He’s sniffing his boss’s farts.
Austin: He is sniffing his boss—
Ali: Mm…
Dre: Ugh.
Austin: No, I do think it— in this specific case, my internal characterization for this guy is that he actually thinks Kenneth Marian Colver is a piece of shit.
Janine: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Austin: But he is a knight of the Fabreal Duchy.
Janine: He’s his piece of shit.
Austin: Right, and it is…this is like a classic “you respect the office of the presidency” type shit, right?
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: This is the Viceroy of this planet, and I am a knight of this planet, and that means I defend the Viceroy, even if I think he’s a piece of shit, and that is Tenn Alpenglow. And so, yeah, they retreat back up. The water that’s already here does not subside. 
Dre: Hmm. That’s weird.
Austin: But there is no more of it. Which means there was some damage done to this, and also there was damage done from the people doing strafing runs. People were absolutely hurt by that. You know, the thing that happens immediately here is actually that the people here jump into action to try to get people medical assistance as quickly as possible. I think, once the ship leaves, the enemy ship leaves…I keep wanting to say “Sefton,” and that’s not her name. Saffron. We must have had a character named Sefton at some point, because it’s in my brain in such a way that I've said that word before, you know what I mean? Saffron hands over the guard duties of the recreation room to Routine, so that she can go attend to people and do medical care to them, people who were hurt during this attack. But everybody else is free to be where they want to be here. There was a Sefton. There’s an NPC named Sefton East, who I don't think ever showed up in PARTIZAN but is in my NPC list, and it’s just in my brain therefore. Anyway, we can be wherever we want to be here, in terms of time, because the immediate threat seems to be over. Where do we want to come back in here? Do y'all stay here during the recovery period? Do you get some distance? Everybody gets back to the ship safely, I guess is worth saying outright.
Dre: Yeah. I guess, what would be better for the settlement? Would it be better for them if we leave? Like, if we’re here, does that make them a target again? I mean, I don't think— I'm not expecting you to answer this, like, universally, Austin.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Dre: But to me, that’s the dialogue that we have with ourselves and the leadership.
Austin: Yeah, do you raise this question?
Dre: Yeah.
Ali: What are the vibes like?
Dre: What are the vibes like?
Austin: At the— wait, are you asking that to Austin?
Ali: I'm asking Austin.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: I'm asking you, Austin.
Dre: Oh, okay.
Ali: And I'm willing to do a Read the Room here—
Austin: No, you don't need to.
Ali: But is it like a, “Oh, thanks for negotiating that. I'm glad that guy’s gone,” or is it like a, “Well, hey…”?
Austin: Uh…
Keith: Well, I think that the question— for me, the question is: why did you have this guy?
Austin: Who are you asking that to? I mean, okay. Vibes first.
Keith: Right.
Austin: Let’s go vibes first and then figure out where we want to go with this. And again, let’s maybe say this conversation is happening kind of immediately, so that— I don't want to take options off the board. I don't want to be like, “It’s been 10 hours. You can't do anything interesting anymore, because we waited too long.”
Dre: Sure.
Austin: So, immediate vibes are Christmas is ruined. Like, people are hurt on an important— on a, quote, unquote, “important” holiday that they’ve never celebrated before but that everyone’s bought in on, you know? Because, for whatever reason, they’ve decided they’ve reclaimed this holiday, and there was lots of— the reason that people are upset is there was lots of material preparation. For weeks or months, people have been building towards this holiday week, and now, it has been marred with violence that has hurt people. 
And there are enough people here— and you know, I was maybe trying to gesture at this a little bit with the first character you ended up chatting with when you first got here—the person who runs the or who works for the Convex Wing, Lucent, Lucent Reflection, Luce—that most of the people here are not like Em or like Sea. Most of them are still kind of weirdos who, you know, believe in the prophecies of ancient glass texts, but they are fundamentally still concerned with things like holidays and making sure dinner is good and figuring out where they’re gonna get their next battery recharge or whatever, right? And are devoted members of the Cause, or are members of the Devotees—which, again, the bulk of them are people who, like we showed in Orbital, are having some social/emotional/personal need met by this group and also are part of a bigger machination that many of them don't know about—and then people in leadership in these places might be doing something else also. 
So, I think the vibe is confusion. The vibe is pain. The vibe is like, “Well, are we still gonna have the tomahto feast or the flotbread feast? [laughs quietly] Is it okay to still do that? Maybe we have to do that, you know?” A lot of people are like, “We have to get out of here. The Principality knows— is gonna come kill us now, because they’re gonna say that we kidnapped this person.”
Keith: Mm-hmm. They did.
Austin: There are definitely— 
Dre: I mean, somebody here did.
Austin: Well, there are people who are like, “We didn’t.”
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: There are people who are like, “We didn't do that. The Blue Channel had that guy,” right? And you don't know how it’s gonna break quite yet, right? In 10 hours, everyone here could believe that the Blue Channel brought that guy, right?
Keith: Well, I think that’s the damage control that we’ve gotta do. I'm not…I don't want that. Fuck your holiday.
Austin: Okay, well—
Ali: Hey.
Austin: [laughs] This is not how to do damage control, Keith.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: That’s internal! [Austin laughs]
Ali: Sure. And I think part of Brnine’s decision around taking the spies information and not the— not that Brnine’s gonna talk to anybody with the spies information that they took, but part of the reasoning there is that I don't know that Brnine is really in the place right now to go pointing fingers to other parts of the Cause. Like, they have a personal curiosity of like, “Is Devotion fucked up?” but isn't going to be like, “Oh, we should kick them out,” or whatever and isn’t trying to be suspicious of other factions in that way. So, I think if I could respond to the overall vibes assessment with a Brnine vibes, I think… [laughs]
Keith: [radio voice] Welcome back to Brnine Vibes.
Ali: [laughs] I think their instinct is, like, to stay and help and be like, “Yeah, you should do the festival. We should put this behind us,” unless there’s an act of like, “Could y'all go?” [laughs] 
Austin: Right, no. In other words, you're making yourselves useful and part of the situation in such a way that you don't leave space for your absence to be filled with accusation.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: If that makes— that’s my read on what you just said.
Ali: Right.
Austin: Does that makes sense?
Ali: Yeah. And I'm open to other opinions in the group right now, but that’s what Brnine would be pushing for, in terms of like, you know, not that we were responsible for this, but since we’re here, we can help.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: And, you know. You know, it is what it is.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Do you spend any time looking at the spies file? And also, secondly, you kind of gestured at this, but you have a list of spies. Then what? [Ali laughs] Because…
Dre: Good question.
Keith: How long is that list?
Austin: Uh, longer than you'd like it to be, but not like this whole thing is a wash, right? It is people in every wing of Violet Cove, which is to say yes, there are members of Devotion who are actually reporting up to the Bilateral Intelligence Service. Yes, there are members of the Dim Liturgy that are doing that. And yes, there are members of the newly arrived Twilight Mirage group who have already been infiltrated by the Bilateral Intelligence Service.
Keith: Whoa.
Austin: There’s other stuff in that list that are, like—and I mean, this comes back to the “should we do the holiday?” thing—that are disconcerting. You keep finding, like, reference to something called the Adagio, and it’s like, it’s imperative that they, you know, do the entire holiday for the Adagio, that they do the whole festival.
Keith: Oh, I forgot about those guys.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: The guys who want everyone to act out their little play thing.
Austin: Right. But it’s not clear that, like…it’s not like, “and that will be the thing that sets the fuse on the bomb that blows up—” like, it’s not that. It’s not clear what doing this festival will do, in any of the communications that Asepsis found for you. As a reminder, the Adagio is the leader of the Bilateral Intercession’s plan to get everyone on cycle, going back to the Twilight Mirage thing where most of the vast majority of the Principality of Kesh was living in a sort of thousand year long play that was fully scripted effectively, and they were kind of living their role beat by beat, exactly as it was written, in a sort of terrible existential cycle. Their own little utopia, you know? Utopia is a process, and for them, the process takes a thousand years, and you repeat it over and over again, and it’s fine; don't worry about it. Anyway, the version— the thing that Connadine wants, as Jack explicated in the first faction game, is to try to get Palisade on a script. And the way you do that is by— is little things, and one of those little things is get everybody celebrating the same holiday.
Keith: Make them care about a holiday that no one’s ever cared about before.
Austin: No one’s ever cared about. Even if the way you do that is make them believe that it’s— that they’ve reclaimed that holiday for themselves.
Keith: Okay, I'm back: fuck the holiday.
Austin: [laughs] But I don't know how you tell people who spent five weeks—or, you know, whatever—getting ready for this holiday, “actually, the holiday is bad, because that guy’s a spy!”
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: “I have a document that says that guy’s a spy!” And I mean, there’s a way to do this. There has to be a way for you to figure out how to do this, because the goal here has been to get rid of the grip, right?
Keith: Well, that’s— I think that is the way, that is like, you introduce the spy drama, and then it’s like, oh, all of the people that are pushing for this holiday have been wrapped up with trying to infiltrate their organization with enemy spies.
Austin: Totally. I think that you have to think about being a person in this community on a day when Kesh attacked you, right? And then you're being told, “actually, the people here are Kesh. They’re Kesh spies, and you shouldn't trust your own people here.” And you're like, “Wait, what are you talking about they’re Kesh spies? Kesh just tried to come blow us all up. If there’s Kesh spies here, why would they come try to blow us all up?” right? So, I'm not— we can play all this out, but I'm setting the groundwork here that it’s actually kind of a hard sell to go to people in a moment of crisis and say, “Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Actually, the moment of crisis is all around you. It’s the person who helps you in the kitchen every Thursday afternoon. That person actually has a knife ready to put in your fucking back.” It is a weird moment. Though there might be different ways to do it. Em is locked up in your rec room and is a spy that you've kidnapped, so that’s also an exploitable resource [laughs] on the table.
Janine: Kidnapped-slash-rescued.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh. Kidnapped-slash-rescued.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Arrested.
Keith: Sometimes kidnappings are more complicated than just kidnappings.
Discussion cont. [0:18:00]
Austin: Mm-hmm. But certainly is being detained in your rec room.
Keith: Sure. Playing pinball.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Yeah, were you like, “Don't touch anything”? What’s the…what was the vibe?
Keith: I think I said, “Help yourself to some pinball.”
Austin: Okay. Great.
Ali: It’s so funny that you say pinball, because there isn’t a pinball machine in there.
Keith: Oh, that is funny.
Ali: There’s a rhythm game machine.
Keith: Oh. [laughs] 
Ali: But I have—
Keith: Did you take it from the mall? Okay.
Ali: No. No, I've always pictured that rhythm game machine as having an element where you have your hands on the side of it, because I think the frustrated pinball posture [Austin: Yeah.] is something that I want to open up fictionally for anybody.
Keith: Oh.
Ali: So. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Rhythm game plus frustrated pinball posture is wild. [Ali laughs]
Keith: [laughs] So it’s got— so it has like a front bar instead of the back bar that you see?
Austin: Instead of the back bar.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Uh huh. And you're just like, [frustrated] “Ah, I keep fucking up. God dammit.”
Keith: I love those rhythm games, because there was a period of like 10 years where the local shitty arcade at the mall just always had some very serious Dance Dance Revolution people at it.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: It was great.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: It was great and confusing.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: It’s like, “I'm just here to play House of the Dead. Sorry.” 
Ali: [laughs] Yeah, I think the way the game works is there’s like wheels on the side that you have to spin.
Austin: [intrigued] There’s wheels. Okay, sure.
Ali: Into specific— like, you kind of put your finger in and you move it around.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Ali: And then it has sort of the…I don't know that it’s Pop’n Music that used to do this, but there was two flat things, and then what you would do is time it to the beat such that you would put your hand above or below those sensors? And I think it’s like, either you go back and forth or there’s different modes or…
Austin: Sure. Yeah.
Ali: Yeah. 
Austin: Yeah. That’s fun.
Ali: That’s Brnine’s [laughs] arcade machine on the ship.
Austin: Thank you for the design for— yeah, uh huh. I got you. You know, why not?
Keith: Hey, that’s—and I mean this literally—that’s just as important as the spy stuff to me. [Austin laughs]
Ali: Uh huh. Thank you.
Dre: Does Em know how Meriwether got here?
Keith: Kenneth Marian.
Austin: Uh, Marian. Kenneth Marian.
Dre: Marian, yeah.
Keith: Colver.
Austin: Uh huh. Colver. And Em is also knows as Marlon, M-A-R-L-O-N, Styx. So Marlon is Em’s real name, or one of his aliases, I guess. Marlon.
Keith: Uh, yeah. You had suggested that he just is too far down on the totem pole to have known about this stuff?
Austin: Yeah, Marlon doesn't know shit. 
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Marlon reports back, right? Marlon isn't making moves. Sea is making moves, you know?
Keith: Right.
Austin: Other people on spy.txt are making moves, though many of them are reporting back or doing research on other things. Like, that’s the other thing that comes out of this is like, oh, there are plenty— a couple of the spies here aren't…it’s not sabotage in the traditional sense, and that’s what makes it so hard to point a finger at. The build seems harmless, you know? They’re building a gun, but they haven't fired it yet, you know?
Keith: Sure.
Austin: To the degree that they fired it, it’s like, “Let’s all have a festival.”
Keith: Right.
Austin: And that’s not…that doesn't feel evil, you know? The stuff that’s evil is reporting information back about the Cause, you know? Sending messages. That’s the stuff that maybe is a little harder, and you can point to that and be like, “Look, they sent this message,” or whatever, but like…it doesn't say they sent it to Kesh HQ, you know? They’re spies. They’re better at this than that, you know? So, you do have the list of who it is that you— and maybe that’s one way to think about this is there are ways and there are ways. There are different degrees and different timings that you can use that list to remove grip. Part of me is like…you know, in tabletop games, the thing that we do is we interpret information and we see how mechanics can abstractly work through a situation in the fiction. 
Here’s one such suggestion, right? You could remove two grip, and in the process, alienate yourselves from Violet Cove by loudly, quickly, and violently—though I don't mean this in the massacre or murder sense, but violently or aggressively, hostilely—purging the people you know are spies from this group, right? And it’s like, all that group is gone instantly. Or you could remove one of the two grip that’s on it right now by sending that data up to Cause HQ and saying, “Hey, stop trusting these people. Get these people out of the conversations. Isolate these people. Bring them in for questioning,” et cetera, and moving slowly, the way you can do a counterintelligence operation. You know, there are ways that we can think abstractly about the two different modes of doing that. That’s one way that we could play this out. Another way we could play this out is just to continue to stay completely in character and roll some dice as you talk to people and you try to make maneuvers. Another thing we could do is say we just don't care about this that much. I think we care about it, because I think it’s an interesting dilemma and I think it speaks to…
You know, it’s interesting: I have to be a fan of the players, and one of the players I have to be a fan of here is Jack de Quidt, right? Who is not here to play Connadine in this moment, the head of the Bilateral Intelligence Service, right? But I'm only just now realizing the sort of trickiness that Jack has set up for the Cause, which is that, like, the thing that the Bilateral Intelligence Service is doing is gathering information and making people do weird parties, and that’s a hard thing to make people feel like they’ve been…it’s not the same as “you've been poisoned,” you know? And I think that that is a fun thing I want to honor on Jack’s side that makes this more complex than if what you'd found was, like, “Oh, yeah, the reason you've all been getting sick lately is because you have spies among you, and here, look, the poison is in their bedroom!” you know what I mean? Like, it’s not as simple as that. The thing that’s in their bedroom is, you know, banners for the festival later this week, and that doesn't feel the same as “we’ve outed the spies; they have the nuclear codes,” you know? Also, yes, do you want to say the thing you just said in chat, Dre?
Dre: Yeah. Since we are all seeing each other as a group again for the first time, uh, Figure is now made of concrete and doesn't have Bismuth anymore.
Austin: And, for that matter, two of Cori’s wings are black.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Huh. Lot of costume changes today.
Sylvia (as Cori): It’s fine. Do we call you Figure in Concrete now?
Keith (as Phrygian): Figure out of Bismuth? 
Dre: Man… [laughs] 
Austin: Is Figure working through it? Like, I don't— 
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Figure, have you had time to sit and think through this at all?
Dre: Nope! Nope!
Austin: Okay. Yeah.
Dre (as Figure): So, just Figure is fine.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia (as Cori): Okay.
Ali (as Brnine): Are you all right? Does that hurt?
Dre (as Figure): No!
Keith (as Phrygian): Does it feel good?
Dre (as Figure): Um, it feels the same. [Sylvia laughs] Good question, though. It would be worse if I wasn't this. Marian had made a deal with the Iconoclast.
Ali (as Brnine): [taken aback] Oh.
Dre (as Figure): Mm.
Ali (as Brnine): And we…yeah. Okay. Okay. [Austin laughs]
Janine: Wait, do we know the word Iconoclast?
Austin: No.
Keith: Nah.
Austin: I don't think you do.
Dre: Oh, okay. Okay.
Austin: The Usher of Truth you know, right?
Dre: Sure.
Janine: Ha, right.
Dre: That weird fucking thing from the train.
Ali: You could say, like, “Marian made the deal.”
Austin: Right.
Dre: Right.
Ali: And I would've maybe understood that from the last mission debriefing?
Dre: Yeah.
Ali: Knowing that y'all talked to a scary ink person. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali (as Brnine): [sighs, groans] Oh boy. Oh boy.
Keith: You know, I…going back to your sort of layout, Austin, of the, you know, different ways to handle this.
Austin: Yeah. Which again, I'm not saying we have to do those ways. Like, I just want to…
Keith: No.
Austin: This is the space that we can play in.
Keith: Well, cards on the table, you know, I want to do some rolls. Like, I want to either…
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: I want to either do a good job of doing this or do a bad job of doing this instead of like, you know, kind of—
Austin: Handwaving it and moving on, yeah.
Keith: Instead of handwaving it. But I do feel comfortable risking our reputation…well, I'm of two minds. Really I feel comfortable risking our reputation with the Violet Cove in order to remove both of the grip [Austin: Mm-hmm.] and figuring out a tactic that sort of ignores the potential backlash on us for being more effective.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: The flip side is that I've been interested, as a player, in losing Violet Cove as a…pillar? No. What—? 
Austin: As a faction of the Cause.
Keith: As a faction and using the Grey Pond ability to replace a seized faction.
Austin: Right. Right.
Keith: Genuinely would not bother me to lose Violet Cove and then use the Grey Pond ability to replace Violet Cove and get a whole new set of, you know, people in here to know. That doesn't bug me. But if that’s off the table, you know, I want to be effective here and not sort of…like, I don't mind if everyone is mad that we say they can't do their holiday because there’s spies. Like, that’s not a problem for me.
Dre: Sure.
Austin: For you, Keith, or Phrygian.
Keith: Right, both. Yeah.
Dre: What draws you about wanting to…is it more about wanting to get a new group in, or is it about wanting to get the Violet Cove out?
Keith: Um, it’s a little bit of both. Like, I do want to see a new group of people. It’s also, like, you know, the player knowing about Devotion and being like, “Ah, I don't want to deal with that.” You know, losing Devotion as an ally wouldn't be the worst thing in the world for the Cause.
Sylvia: [mock offended] Wow. [Dre and Keith laugh]
Ali: Right?
Austin: Brutal.
Sylvia: Wow.
Keith: It’s true. I think it’s true, though.
Austin: Even now that you've potentially seen that Devotion—you the player, not Phrygian, who has not seen this—that Devotion seems like maybe something that has been taken advantage of itself by the Principality? That Devotion didn't originate as this maniacal, evil, expansionist cult that we see it as now.
Keith: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Austin: You're more interested in, like, let’s get it off the board.
Keith: That’s Divines, baby! That’s what…
Austin: Right, right, right.
Keith: You know, that is like the beginning and the end of what Divines…
Austin: Well. It’s also people, right?
Keith: Sure, right. 
Austin: So.
Keith: Well, that’s the problem.
Austin: Which is me saying: don't think you can put a faction on the board I can't take.
Keith: No.
Austin: Right?
Keith: No.
Austin: But yes. I get what you're saying.
Keith: But of all of the different ways that all of these factions could be taken, one of them is already taken and seems very complicated to put back together, and it’s the Devotion stuff. And not that the Dim Liturgy is that great either.
Austin: You're just saying that because they’re the descendents of the Rapid Evening members who came to obliterate the Twilight Mirage, and now they’re—
Keith: [cross] [laughs] Yeah, that is why.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Listen, sometimes you end up in a revolution with some people who you don't quite fuck with.
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah. But we also have a move that can replace them with, you know, question mark.
Austin: Yeah. It is with question mark.
Keith: I've seen a lot of people make the bad choice of siding with the devil they know.
Austin: Right. Instead of…right.
Keith: And it’s like, damn, the devil you know was a devil. So.
Austin: So, in a way, what you're proposing— and I'm not suggesting that this is a— I’m, again, doing the job of trying to interpret a fictional suggestion in a mechanical sense.
Keith: Right.
Austin: Is spies.txt could also be used to say, “Fuck it. We've gotta get rid of them. Let’s give them the third grip, and in the process, [Keith: Yes.] trigger the Grey Pond ability, which is replace a seized faction.”
Keith: Yes.
Dre: I guess my question, and maybe this is too much table talk, but like—
Austin: Never.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Friends at the Table. [Ali laughs quietly]
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sylvi, how would you, as player, feel about that turn?
Sylvia: Uh, I feel like it just adds a couple more layers to the way things are already getting complicated for Cori, right?
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: This whole mission coming here was weirdly already a sort of test between her priorities [Dre: Sure.] of Devotion versus the Cause, and I can kinda…I feel like we’ve done a pretty decent job of showing that she’s leaning more towards the Cause these days?
Austin: Though, if that’s something…you know. The other thing there is like, if you're interested in complicating that, we can continue to complicate that in many different ways, right? So.
Sylvia: Yeah. I mean, I also think it makes it extremely complex if she has to start fighting the community she grew up in, right?
Austin: Right. Yep.
Janine: I think a thing that we risk doing here is thinking that there’s a correct strategy.
Austin: Yes.
Janine: When it’s just gonna come down to whatever it comes down to. Whatever choice we make, it could go bad; it could go good. It depends on rolls. It depends on whatever. So, it’s kind of not worth worrying about like, “Well, if we get rid of this one that’s already overtaken, then we can get a new one that’s not, and…” If it’s gonna go bad, it’s gonna go bad. So, I think that element should probably be off the table, and then it should come down to just, like, is the story of this season that we want that Violet Cove, you know, falls and someone else comes in?
Austin: Right.
Janine: Is that the thing that feels right, right now? And if not, then do we just wait and see if Jack takes them on their own? Because that could also happen. Like, we don't need to necessarily hand Violet Cove over. In terms of the name list, I don't know. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Oh. The spy list of spies, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Yeah, it feels like too much for us. [laughs] Like, as a crew, it just feels so above our paygrade.
Austin: That’s very funny also, right? The idea that like, “Here, I got this for you.” Send it up.
Janine: We were just being used as bait.
Austin: Mm-hmm. [Ali laughs]
Janine: And now we just have this list? Like…
Dre: Sure.
In-Character Discussion [0:33:17]
Austin: Okay, here’s a question: have we hit the conversation we should be having in character? I love coming in on this question of like, “what is our paygrade?” right? Everybody— you have spies— I'm guessing, Brnine, did you tell everybody you have this list of spies?
Sylvia: I mean, I saw it, so I know.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: And I feel— like, people know why we’re here. So.
Austin: Yeah. And you've arrested a spy.
Ali: Right. [laughs] 
Austin: You have a spy in your rec room, right? So then, yeah, I think it…and if you need an NPC to say this, maybe it’s Hunting, who is like:
(as Hunting): Is dealing with these spies above our paygrade? Maybe we should just send it back. Maybe this isn't the sort of thing we handle.
Keith (as Phrygian): We don't have a paygrade.
Austin (as Hunting): You don't get paid? Is Phrygian not getting paid? [Keith laughs]
Keith (as Phrygian): No, I mean, there’s no…my pay has no limit— does not limit what I can and can't do.
Austin (as Hunting): Phrygian’s getting paid an infinite amount of money?! [Dre and Ali laugh] 
Sylvia: Phrygian’s getting money.
Ali (as Brnine): We’re just not weighted in that way.
Austin (as Hunting): I see.
Ali (as Brnine): We have a decision to make. I would like to do what’s best for the Cause, and I think that making people aware of this vulnerability is our priority, but I don't know that I'm walking up to a priest and being like, “Hey, fuck you,” today.
Keith (as Phrygian): You don't have to say “fuck you.”
Janine: On Christmas.
Dre (as Figure): Yeah.
Ali (as Brnine): Well, you know, not in so many words.
Dre (as Figure): But, I mean, do we trust Gucci and whoever else we’d give this list to to do the right thing by the Cause? And what does that even mean?
Austin: You saying that, the Figure, Asepsis rates Figure higher, as more trustworthy now, because it’s clear that the Figure doubts Gucci and the leadership, which Asepsis also does.
Dre: Nice, nice, nice.
Ali: Hey! [laughs] That’s fair, Asepsis.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: I'll talk to my dog after this. [Dre laughs]
Austin: Oh my god.
Dre (as Figure): I mean, the right thing for the Cause was us to be used as bait without our knowledge.
Sylvia (as Cori): That worked out, right?
Dre (as Figure): Yes, but I mean, it would’ve worked—
Janine: You tell me, Cori.
Sylvia (as Cori): I'm fine!
Dre (as Figure): It would’ve worked out even better if we had known everything that was going on.
Keith (as Phrygian): If we give it to Gucci, Gucci’s just gonna use it to get more brownie points with whoever she’s reporting up to.
Ali (as Brnine): I—
Keith (as Phrygian): And then all the spies will still be here, where we are.
Ali (as Brnine): I don't think that that’s necessarily true. I do think that it’s fucked up that they didn't feel like we should be aware of the full plan last week, and I think part of being cooperative with this information is gaining some of that trust.
Keith (as Phrygian): Cooperation’s a two-way street.
Ali (as Brnine): Sure.
Janine (as Thisbe): We are not necessarily equipped to act on this information. If you're digging a ditch and you find gold, are you prepared to extract that gold when you were equipped to dig a ditch?
Janine: Thisbe probably doesn’t sound that, like, actually inquisitive. It’s probably a much flatter delivery. [Ali laughs quietly]
Austin: Mm-hmm. Routine goes:
(as Routine): I'd just get the right tools so I could get the gold. Like, a second shovel.
Keith (as Phrygian): We have a lot of tools.
Austin (as Routine): And like one of those little things. You sift it.
Ali (as Brnine): Our one spy is in the rec room, man.
Austin (as Routine): Hmm.
Keith (as Phrygian): Yeah, and he’s the worst spy, though! He’s the worst of all of them.
Dre (as Figure): Worst as in, like—
Keith (as Phrygian): Least important.
Dre (as Figure): Ah.
Ali (as Brnine): [sighs] But it’s a start, right? Like, if he’s a really bad spy, and he starts talking, and we have this list, then that’s a path, right?
Dre (as Figure): I mean, he might not even know who’s on the list.
Ali (as Brnine): Yeah, but he knows who he’s talking to and what his orders were and what the fuck he’s spying on.
Keith (as Phrygian): I think it’s a path that just leads back to where we are now.
Ali (as Brnine): What, having a bunch of spies?
Keith (as Phrygian): Yeah. I think if we do anything but act on the information that we have directly, we’ll just have to act on it later, but on someone else’s orders. Someone who we came here because we’re mad at.
Ali (as Brnine): Well, later with the proper tools, to Thisbe’s point.
Dre (as Figure): Sure. Sometimes—
Keith (as Phrygian): I'm confused what tools we think we’re missing.
Dre (as Figure): Yeah.
Austin (as Hunting): Isn't tools just a metaphor for paygrade?
Keith (as Phrygian): I have no paygrade.
Austin (as Hunting): Or the reverse? Like, isn’t the point that we don't know what to do with this information and we can't use it right now?
Janine (as Thisbe): Do you wish to capture them? Do you wish to kill them? Do you wish to indoctrinate them? Do you wish to detain them? Do you wish to transport them? What do we wish to do with them? How do we wish to assemble them?
Keith (as Phrygian): Uh, detain.
Janine (as Thisbe): Will there be resistance? How will we— what will we do in the case of resistance, should our perspective not be seen?
Keith (as Phrygian): All questions that we either have to answer now or someone else, maybe us, will have to answer in a week.
Austin (as Hunting): No, but like, what if we go— you said you were talking to this guy, Sea, and that he’s a spy, right? Is he on the list?
Austin: He’s on the list.
Keith (as Phrygian): Guaranteed on the list.
Ali (as Brnine): Yeah.
Austin (as Hunting): Well, if we went and arrested him, and then other people in the Dim Liturgy were like, “No, put him down,” and they’re not spies, what do we do? This is what I— that’s above my paygrade, because I'm not gonna— they’re on our side. They just think that he’s good, and I don't know that showing them his phone bill is gonna change that.
Janine (as Thisbe): What if he says that one of us is the spy and they attempt to take us?
Keith (as Phrygian): There’s no amount of giving this—
Janine (as Thisbe): And we fight them. Who is correct?
Keith (as Phrygian): There’s no amount of giving this list to Gucci first that will make these questions less complicated.
Austin (as Hunting): I just don't want to have to answer them.
Ali (as Brnine): That’s not necessarily true. I mean, what, do you want me to call Cause leadership myself instead of having Gucci as a middle person? But I don't know that we’re the sole actors here. We didn't create the relationship with Violet Cove. We didn't…I’m not even from here, man. Like…
Austin: I think Midnite, who has not spoken during this, has her arms crossed and says:
(as Midnite): The fact that we defer things like this is why we’re not in the leadership room. It’s why you're not in the leadership room. I feel like—
Sylvia (as Cori): You can't talk to the captain like that.
Austin (as Midnite): I've known the captain since…since they lived in a lighthouse, all right?
Sylvia (as Cori): You lived in a lighthouse?
Ali (as Brnine): Yeah, it was chill.
Sylvia (as Cori): That’s kind of cool.
Austin (as Midnite): Brnine, if this is a thing that you think is something you have to let Gucci go do, then I don't think we get to be mad when we get used as bait, because we’ve decided: we don't make our own calls; Gucci does. And maybe that’s fine, you know? You're my captain. I decided that was okay for me, and so you can decide that’s okay for you. But I don't think we—
Keith (as Phrygian): I think if it was okay with us, we wouldn’t be here today.
Austin (as Midnite): What do you mean?
Keith (as Phrygian): We’d be at Baseline.
Austin (as Midnite): I don't know. Pardon the pun, but sometimes you get a wild hair up your ass, you know? And you go and do something that’s different than what you normally do.
Keith (as Phrygian): Why is it a pun? Do you have wild hairs?
Ali (as Brnine): [hushed] She’s a hare. She’s a hare. Shut up. 
Keith (as Phrygian): Oh! Okay. Got it. [Ali laughs quietly]
Ali (as Brnine): It’s one thing to make a call to figure out a vulnerability in the Cause. It’s another one to make a decision that affects other parts of this.
Keith (as Phrygian): If we can show up to a place and decide who to shoot and kill and who not to shoot and kill, we can go arrest a room of spies. I don't understand the problem.
Austin (as Hunting): It’s the people who aren't spies.
Keith (as Phrygian): There are people who aren’t targets everywhere we go.
Austin (as Hunting): Those people haven't been working on our behalf.
Austin: I'm Hunting now. This is Hunting’s voice, I've decided. [Ali laughs quietly] I'm down here, or up here.
Sylvia: Is this list just people within the Violet Cove that are spies or in all the Cause?
Austin: It’s just people inside of Violet Cove, yeah, but in all arms of Violet Cove. And again, let’s say that there are— we didn't say how many people were in this facility. Oh, a couple things. One: it includes people who are not in this specific monastery, right?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: There are people who are like, in other parts of the Isle of the Broken Key, and there are probably people who are in other parts of Palisade, right? It’s probably a couple dozen people, right? Which is not a ton of people, but it’s enough people to be a problem. Especially because, you know—
Keith: Some of them are high up. Yeah.
Austin: Many of them are high up, yeah. It’s more high up people— mm. It’s as many high up people as low down people, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia (as Cori): [hesitantly] Is my dad on the list? [Ali laughs] 
Dre: Ooh!
Austin: No. Absolutely not.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: No. Your dad is not bought into that shit. Your dad’s name, you know, probably came up somewhere in there as someone who could be manipulated, maybe, or maybe someone who couldn’t be manipulated because of how tied in deep with Devotion he is.
Janine: Under Header, it says “goons.”
Sylvia: Too busy being manipulated.
Austin: Right, yeah. Exactly.
Keith (as Phrygian): I think Cori makes a great point. We don't even know who we can give this information to. If this is the list at Violet Cove, who knows what the list anywhere else looks like?
Sylvia (as Cori): Well, the reason I brought that up was also because, would it…I mean, I haven't been here for a while, but I was part of the community. Like, I can— would it help to have a friendly face if we’re going to deal with this? I can help calm people down who aren’t spies, maybe?
Austin (as Hunting): Couldn’t hurt.
Keith (as Phrygian): Yeah, couldn’t hurt.
Ali (as Brnine): That’s putting your neck, like, out.
Keith (as Phrygian): That’s our job!
Dre (as Figure): Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, I mean, another thing here…or does an NPC think of this? Midnite maybe voices this, because I think she’s the sort of person who sees the world this way.
(as Midnite): You could give the list to your dad. [Janine laughs]
Ali (as Brnine): Oh, well…okay.
Sylvia (as Cori): I could!
Ali (as Brnine): No, okay.
Austin (as Midnite): You could let them clean themselves out.
Sylvia (as Cori): Aw.
Ali (as Brnine): No — okay.
Austin (as Midnite): Do their own little purge.
Ali (as Brnine): No.
Dre (as Figure): Wait, why not?
Ali (as Brnine): Because.
Austin (as Midnite): Because why?
Ali (as Brnine): Mm… [grumbles]
Sylvia (as Cori): [hurt] You not rockin’ with my dad? [all laugh]
Austin: I'm wounded. I've taken a Peril. 
Keith: That is the most in character thing you've ever said. [laughter continues]
Janine: Huge teary eyes.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, absolutely!
Janine: Wings tipped downwards forlornly.
Austin: Mm-hmm! Mm-hmm. [Sylvia laughs]
Ali (as Brnine): Our priority here is strengthening the Cause, and I don't think arresting 12 dudes—
Keith (as Phrygian): Spies! 12 spies!
Ali (as Brnine): 12 spies. No, I know, but…you know, there’s other things that you can do with people besides have them in handcuffs.
Dre (as Figure): [sighs] I don't—
Ali (as Brnine): Information is valuable.
Dre (as Figure): Yes, I agree.
Keith (as Phrygian): But that’s why they’re dangerous. [Ali laughs]
Dre (as Figure): Well, I don't— hold on. Captain, I agree with you that the best way forward may not be the one that is immediately available to us, but you're right that information is valuable, and I— this is our chance to change the status quo, because we have such a valuable piece of information. This is a piece of information that you could parley into being on the vote next time.
Austin (as Hunting): They make a point. 
Ali (as Brnine): [sighs] 
Austin (as Hunting): Let Gucci run her own ship.
Ali (as Brnine): Fine. Then what are our demands? As a crew, between the— 
Ali: Eight of us? Nine of us? How many—
Austin: Not holding this against you, but it is funny to be like, “Brnine doesn't know how many people are on the ship.” [Keith laughs]
Ali: Shut up!
Austin: I'm not—!
Dre: Gotta count on your fingies and toes. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Austin: No, I'm saying I know that’s a— that’s Austin, not— yeah, I'm joking.
Ali: It’s five plus four, right?
Austin: Sure. Yeah, I think that’s right. 
Ali: Five player characters, four crew members.
Austin: I think that’s right. And Asepsis.
Ali: Between the 10 of us— [all laugh]
Ali (as Brnine): Between the nine of us, what do we want out of this?
Dre (as Figure): I want us to have a say in what we do.
Sylvia (as Cori): I'm more just worried about the way rooting out the spies is gonna be handled with the other Devotees more than anything, honestly.
Ali (as Brnine): Decisions. Taking care of Violet Cove.
Keith (as Phrygian): Yeah, I agree with Figure.
Austin (as Hunting): Yeah.
Dre: I think Figure kind of double takes at that. Like, not straight up balks, but is like, “Wait. Okay.”
Keith: Figure! Someone agrees with me? [laughs] 
Austin: Don't you have, like, a— [laughs] Aww.
Dre: Not double take— maybe double take is the wrong way, but like, I mean, the hook with Phrygian is that like, man, I really admire how Phrygian questions authority.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Dre: And I think Figure didn't completely disagree with Phrygian but sort of did, and it’s—
Austin: At the taking action directly part.
Dre: Right.
Ali: Uh huh.
Dre: And so it’s—
Austin: And then within this new sub-question, you're aligned.
Keith: Right. Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Ali (as Brnine): I'm still listening.
Austin (as Midnite): We should get a brig.
Austin: Says Midnite. 
(as Midnite): Make them install a brig so that if we do have to arrest people like this, we have a place to put them that isn't the rec room.
Ali (as Brnine): [quietly] Oh, god.
Keith (as Phrygian): Uh, I could temporarily be a brig.
Austin (as Midnite): No, I want a permanent, real brig. [Sylvia laughs] We can use some of the space in the cargo hold. We can figure something out.
Ali (as Brnine): I have control over Blue Channel assets, but I can certainly ask for a, you know, resources.
Austin (as Routine): Would that mean that you get a vote?
Austin: Says Routine.
(as Routine): On what other parts of the Cause do too, the way they do with us? That seems useful.
Dre (as Figure): It seems fair.
Ali (as Brnine): But then what does Gucci do?
Keith (as Phrygian): Suck eggs.
Austin: Austin has ideas.
Ali: [laughing] Fuck you.
Austin: I know exactly what it is. It’s just very fun.
Dre (as Figure): I mean, you don't have to take her spot. This could be a “Yes, and.”
Janine (as Thisbe): Operant Garantine is capable of finding methods to occupy herself elsewhere in the Cause.
The World Moves [0:49:03]
Austin: All right, well, while you're trying to figure this out, the world moves. I say this a lot when we play games, that, you know, you can't just not do a thing and expect the world to stay still. The world doesn't stay still. And there, off the northern cliff of this kind of monastery, the Kestral White appears again, shimmering into existence, decloaking. And without saying any words, six of those Gambeson units that tortured this place before are launched again, and it seems as if the people you trusted to leave after a fair exchange were not to be trusted. Alpenglow begins a broadcast over loudspeakers, coming not only from the massive carrier ship that hovers over the north cliff but also coming out of these Gambeson units as they do strafing runs on this place. He says:
(as Alpenglow): Listen well. My master, the Viceroy Kenneth Marian Colver, has, as proxy of the Stargrave of Palisade, ordered the eradication of this treacherous cloister. But he is a generous man, and I am a merciful one, so I beg you: throw yourselves upon our grace. Those who would join the ranks of the repentant, who would reconcile yourselves to the love of the Principality, come to the center of the park, the one shaped as an eye. Stand in the pupil, and wait in safety as we do our noble work.
Austin: And with that, he launches also, again in this massive, almost like a castle, almost like a big rook from a chess board with the stone armor, the Plackart that he was in before. And as he does, yet again, this place begins to instantly flood as water begins to kind of seep in from seemingly nowhere. And let me just explain this situation to you in, you know, gamey terms, if that makes sense. For each…in this chaos, these spies that you know are here: some of them are gonna try to, like, go to ground. Some of them are gonna try to use the chaos to get more information or to do damage to this place. And I think some of them are just gonna try to blend in and keep themselves safe, right? 
For each spy that you capture and bring back, the way that you did with Em, with Marlon Styx, you will be able to spend them like hold, one for one, for the following things: remove a grip from Violet Cove; remove a tick from Uncover the Cause, because if you've captured them, the Cause can use them to feed false information up the chain to the Bilateral Intelligence Service. You can use them to add one grip on the Bilateral Intelligence Service or one of the Bilateral Intelligence Service’s…one of their holdings, which I should look at our character sheets and be able to tell you what those are, but I don't have those open right this second. Let me get that going. There we go. Which again would be the Diadem Grav Train, the Stargrave Elcessor—yeah, Stargrave Elcessor is her name—or the Paint Shop. So you can use them as— you can get info from them that gives you grip on one of the Stel Kesh pillars that they hold, or you could just use the fact that you got them and turned them over to gain a benefit for the Blue Channel, like voting power or more resources or whatever we want to negotiate that out. 
So, let me— I'll paste those in so you know what you get for each spy that you capture. You know what, let me add a spy clock, so we know how many spies you end up with that you've captured. That make sense? Hmm. I like how it looks; I would just like to be able to click on things. There we go. All right. I'm gonna make this Captured Spies—there we go—and then set this to zero, because right now you have captured none. Actually, you know, I guess you’ve captured one, but I'm— so you're gonna get one no matter what, because you've captured Marlon, but the rest of these, you…I’m just gonna leave it as a six step clock. I'll just have to remember that you have one, you know?
Keith: So, are they gonna be attacking Violet Cove and we’re going to be…
Austin: Is who going to be doing what? Wait, so who’s the “they”?
Keith: Searching for spies. Oh, the ship and the chains.
Austin: Yeah, the chains, and again this big giant ship also, are going to be attacking, so you're gonna have to try and prioritize here, right? Because here’s the other half of this: you know, depending on how this goes, they may just destroy enough of Violet Cove that they, in gameplay terms, do seize Violet Cove. They’ve destroyed it, right? There are a lot of targets here, right? We can think of this in terms of the big buildings and stuff that we see. There’s the cave, the Concave, where there’s the kind of hyper-specific research. There’s the Convex Hall, which is the kind of big picture vibes based research location. There’s the Glass Archive, a.k.a. the Thing Itself, you may recall. There’s the big main hall also, which again is not one-to-one. I imagine there’s a couple of buildings in this general space that are similar to that, and those are all filled with people, most of whom are not spies, most of whom are people who, you know, adhere to the beliefs of the Devotees or the Dim Liturgy. 
And in the northeast especially, all of these Twill folks and all of— many of whom have been on your ship, right? The people who are in this place are some of the people that you rescued from the Diadem in the very first arc, right? And then the Twilight Mirage folks, who are kind of new arrivals, include people who are here to do— remember, we kind of talked about the Twilight Mirage folks as being less about being soldiers and more about being, like, heroic DIYers and people who could help with things like plumbing and researchers and scientists and artists and all of the stuff that the Twilight Mirage is good with, people who come here to lend their various skillsets to all the different parts of the Cause. And so those people are in trouble. So yeah, those are the places that you would like to keep protected here. Depending on how you do, you know, we could see that the Violet Cove becomes so damaged that it is just seized outright. So yeah.
Keith: But it could become so saved.
Austin: Uh huh. That…?
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I like this line of thought.
Keith: That it’s totally back in our control.
Austin: Correct. Right, sure. It could be that. It could do that. What was the line of thought that you liked, Sylvia?
Sylvia: Uh, saving people. 
Austin: Saving people.
Sylvia: I liked the idea of everyone being saved.
Austin: Mm.
Dre: Oh, sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Why don't we just do that, right, you know?
Ali: Yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Right. Is that because of your…what do you call it? One of your tenets?
Sylvia: Oh, I mean, the…which one specifically?
Austin: You are a shield; leave none undefended?
Sylvia: Yeah, that is mostly actually what I am thinking of.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Is that Cori here wants to make sure that the people of the Violet Cove and stuff are protected here.
Ali: That brings to mind a question. Is Papá following the call to arms here? 
Keith: Papá.
Austin: Is Griesel?
Dre: Mm, Papá.
Ali: [laughs] Is Mr. Military defending his grounds?
Austin: Mr. Griesel.
Sylvia: You think this motherfucker knows how to drive? [Ali and Keith laugh]
Austin: I mean, does he? Is that true? Does he?
Sylvia: A mech? [Ali laughs]
Austin: Well…does he? You tell me.
Ali: I thought he was ‘bout that life.
Sylvia: Theoretically, maybe. Practically… 
Ali: I thought he was Instagram posting, like, #DefendYourHome.
Austin: God, that’s so funny.
Keith: Hey, I mean…I know a big bird that says that you don't have to get in a mech to fight a mech.
Austin: It’s true.
Ali: Uh huh.
Dre: It’s true.
Austin: That’s true. No, but I do think…
Sylvia: Hmm.
Austin: Do you think that maybe he’s in, like, a tank or something? Or some sort of, like, you know…
Sylvia: Like an APC of some sort, sure.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, okay.
Sylvia: I don't think that he’s frontlines, though.
Austin: Damn. Damn, drag your own daddy.
Keith: Wow.
Sylvia: You know, that’s for his daughter.
Austin: Ah.
Ali: He’s an ideas guy.
Austin: Right, right. [Dre laughs grimly]
Sylvia: Literally, that’s on his business card. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Is he like a background character in one of those war-focused Studio Ghibli movies?
Austin: Right, exactly.
Janine: Like when there’s like a pig in a turret kind of thing? [Austin laughs]
Sylvia: That is a great way to describe him. [Janine laughs]
Austin: Aah! All right, yeah, I'm gonna add him. One second.
Keith: Pig in a turret is my favorite obsolete breakfast. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: God. So, it’s a— pig in a— yeah, okay, yeah, good.
Sylvia: Obsolete Breakfast. Write it on the name sheet.
Austin: Write it down. Uh huh. [Keith laughs] All right. So, you know what? Yeah, I've added him, and I've also added a few other people here, because, you know, this place doesn't have big huge military stuff, but it does have a few Chariot Mk I’s. You might remember the name Chariot, because that is the name of Cori’s mech is a Chariot Mk II.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: So they are only a tier two. I guess that’s gonna get weird, because yours is a mark two but tier three.
Sylvia: Yeah, sorry about that.
Austin: It’s fine.
Sylvia: I probably should have done mark three. It’s fine.
Austin: You know what? It’s fine. Don't worry about it, right? So, they are all in Chariot Mk I’s. They’re in, like, kind of just probably— maybe not smaller, just less— oh, do you know what it is?
Sylvia: Mm-hmm?
Austin: It’s very similar to yours, except the give and take on the blood sacrifice is less good for them.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah, I was just gonna say: didn’t Sylvi famously once say that the Mk II is…it was redeveloped because the first one killed people too quickly? 
Austin: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Drained them too fast.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Exactly. Exactly!
Ali: Sure. Well, you know.
Austin: All right, and then there’s Griesel’s APC back here, which I bet is also like a communications and mapping truck, you know? I think— so, an APC is an armored personnel carrier, for people who don't know what that means. It’s like a big— it’s like not quite a tank, because it doesn't have tank treads, but it does have one okay gun, and it has— [Dre laughs] in this case, we’re gonna give it the Gundam 08th MS Team thing of, like, that’s where your mapping software is. That’s where your radar and all your communications, you know, equipment is, giving you a full picture of what the battlefield is. And so these all roll out of, like, a side warehouse in the main hall, and they’re gonna count as members of your crew for this, so if you— as a reminder, you can roll plus Crew in order to use other characters basically to do some things. 
Does that make sense? Cool. Any other questions about how we’re running it, so to speak? Running this big fucked up fight, that is. Oh, I should make this ship visible, huh? There it is. There’s the Kestral White, and that’s hovering here. And Tenn Alpenglow lands right at the park of Devotion, and it’s clear that that part is no longer flooding. The area directly around Tenn is not flooding, but the rest of this place is slowly being turned into water.
Keith: We got an explanation for the water, but I don't remember what it was.
Austin: It’s elemental. It’s an elemental magic type.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Austin: It’s probably that they have captured and experimented on a Branched; or another Branched like the one from last season, Corrasion, became, you know, betrayed the Branched, right? 
Keith: Right.
Austin: But it’s probably the first type. It’s probably someone who was captured. I'm gonna get rid of these two clocks that are Violet Cove Investigation—you've succeeded at that—and Sustenance for Figure. Again, you don't have the sustenance, but you found a source for it. And I'm gonna keep Devotion Weirdness and Captured Spies up, because those are still important. You haven't quite figured out all the Devotion weirdness yet; that’s at four of six. And of course, your captured spies is at zero of six.
Keith: And that was the…there was a point where we could get spies.txt or figure out more of the Devotion weirdness, and we chose…
Austin: And you kind of went with the spy stuff.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, exactly.
Keith: Okay, so that’s why that’s at four.
Austin: Yep.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: And so, yeah. I'm gonna say—
Keith: Hey, more chances for that now.
Austin: Yeah, totally. To begin with, here, the key thing I would say is that the two big Gambeson groups—which, again, are these iron maiden type mechs—have split off into two different directions. The main ones that you kind of fought before, these three here, are headed just towards the main hall, in order to try to do as much damage to stuff that is not the ancient memory of Crystal Palace—that they would like to, you know, theoretically take and use for themselves—and do as much damage as they can to the main crew of the people who run the Violet Cove. The other group, the kinds that are in— you'll see that this is the Gambeson ver. Pyre; V-E-R dot, like version, Pyre— are headed right for the Twill and Twilight Mirage kind of camp in the Northeast, and the reason that those are ver. Pyre is that instead of being just the kind that attack with big weird spiky bullets, you immediately see that these have been retrofitted for fire and flame weaponry. They have flamethrowers, and then they have this thing called the heat line impaler, which launches a sort of thin flaming wire with a hook on it, almost like a taser line but mech sized.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: And when it hits— and it’s already on fire, right? It’s like burning up, and when it hits on— it does like a thermal lock-on, so it focuses on other mechs that are hot, because I guess some mechs don't run hot. Presumably some magic doesn’t run hot; it just runs regular. You know, it just runs regular. It just runs cool, because it’s weird magic now. But it locks onto either hot mechs or hot vehicles or people, and then red hot spikes are launched down the wires. They’re like wire targets, like literally down the wire into their targets. These are brutal, terrible mechs. I won't zoom in too much on what they plan to do here—hopefully you can stop them—but it’s killing a lot of people. This is, for all of— you know, to underscore this a little bit: Tenn Alpenglow talked a big game about being this noble guy who was willing to stick by his word, until his boss, who has since recovered back on the Kestral White, decided, “Fuck it, burn it all down.”
Dre: Mm.
Austin: And then he listened to his boss, because you cannot trust…no matter how nice they talk, you cannot fucking trust these people, you know? Their nobility might be a shield for their own psyches. All of their, you know, pretty words don't mean shit when they’re told to massacre people, and they’re doing that. And it’s chaos here instantly. A number of people do start running towards the park, in order to try to get into what Tenn has claimed will be a safe spot, but we’ll see how that goes. What do you do? What’s the mood, as this happens in the middle of your argument on the Blue Channel?
Keith: I have a quick, like, flavor thing.
Austin: Please.
Keith: That I don't know if we’ve talked about before. We know all about the Violet Cove and what they do, but the other half of it is that every member of the Cause is sort of surreptitiously a member of the Cause, and so Violet Cove is technically—like, according to, you know, the empire here—part of the empire.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Yep.
Keith: What do people feel about what they do here? Like, in the rest of the…
Austin: The rest of the Palisade or Principality or like—
Keith: Yeah, the rest of the Principality. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Or like, what do the people in one of the— Carleon-Upon-Wisk, the kind of center of the…
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: They think these are weird cultists.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: But what can you do? They’re weird cultists, right?
Keith: Okay.
Austin: The thing that has changed here is that…I mean, the thing that’s changed here is that Kenneth Marian Colver has decided to, you know, kill everybody here.
Keith: Right.
Austin: And part of being part of an occupying empire is that when you find people who are completely on the margins, like the people who are practicing a religion that you think are heretical, you can kind of do that and get away with it, especially if you can tie them directly to a rebel cause in some way, which we have established that that connection has now been made, right? 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: People understand the Dim Liturgy exists at some sort of relation to a larger organization, or at least has worked with Millennium Break, because y'all showed up to that party, right? And you know, Marlon got some info out of you. So he’s very much that thing of like…this is very much that thing of like, the people in Carleon-Upon-Wisk might think that it’s a shame that this had to happen, but it had to happen, right? And when I say the people, I mean the people who are on the side of the Bilateral Intercession, right? Not…I’m sure the Pact of Necessary Venture would actually love to talk about how “inhumane” this was [laughs] and how terrible their enemies in the Bilateral Intercession are, because in the Pact, of course, we believe in tolerance for people who worship different— you know, who are part of different faiths. We believe in openness to let people live and let live, all the stuff the Pact, you know, uses as their big propaganda spiels, right? So, does that help for flavor a little bit, Keith?
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Reactions [1:07:55]
Austin: So, back to the Blue Channel here. As these groups start to move across the monastery, what is your immediate reaction on the bridge or whatever, the conversation pit of the Blue Channel?
Janine: I think Thisbe just leaves. Like, I think Thisbe…
Austin: You're like, “All right, time to go.”
Janine: Yeah. When I was originally kind of brokering that trade, I was fully braced for it to break bad, so when it didn't, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] it was a bit like, “Oh, okay.” But I think maybe in the back of her mind, Thisbe was like, “I need to keep an eye on this until we’re, like, gone,” basically.
Austin: Right. Right.
Dre: Mm.
Janine: So, the second something seems up, she is going to go to Mow and I think probably beeline for the Twill and Mirage folks.
Austin: That makes sense. You have a Twill hook or something, right? Or a gravity clock with the Twill, right? 
Janine: Yeah. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, totally. All right, can you— do you have control over yourself or do only I have control over your…?
Janine: I don't know what that means. What are you talking— [laughs quietly] 
Austin: You have this token on the thing.
Janine: Oh, okay. [laughs]
Dre: Mm. [Keith laughs]
Janine: You. It’s only— I can’t—
Austin: Do you have control over yourself? [Janine laughs]
Sylvia: No.
Janine: I thought there was, like, a mechanic in this game that I was just not aware of.
Austin: No. No. All right, let me give you— let me make sure you have control over it too. Uh, try now? Can you move it now?
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Are you Frisbee? Yeah, you're Frisbee. Okay. 
Janine: Yeah.
Dre: Frisbee.
Keith: Very funny if this was the reveal that Austin believed the world was a simulation but his simulation. [Ali, Janine, and Austin laugh]
Austin: Oh my god. Can you fucking imagine how terrible that would be for everyone on this call? Ugh! [Keith laughs] All right, I think everyone should be able to control their own tokens here.
Dre: Yes.
Sylvia: Everybody’s got fun names but me.
Austin: It’s killing me.
Ali: I can’t move the Blue Channel.
Austin: Oh. I was giving you you.
Ali: But I can move the hat.
Austin: Yeah, so do you— what do you do? Does Brnine stay on the Blue Channel?
Ali: I'm about to use my Captain moves for the first time.
Austin: You're gonna be a fucking captain.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Ali: I'm gonna start rolling Crew.
Austin: Hell yeah.
Ali: Y'all should roll Crew, by the way, just FYI.
Austin: Do you want to explain what this is? [Ali laughs] What it means to roll Crew?
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah, what does that mean?
Dre: Teach me.
Ali: Um…I don't know what it means for everybody else.
Austin: Mm.
Ali: But I do know that…
Dre: Mm.
Ali: I'm gonna— [reading] “You are the carrier’s captain, and naturally, you have command of it’s crew. While at the helm of the carrier, you may order the crew to perform moves on your behalf. Unlike when other playbooks use Crew, you can do this any number of times.” So, I think you guys can only do it once, but do it.
Austin: You can do it up to the— other people can do it— the rest of the party can do it up to the number of times you have in the Crew score. Total.
Ali: Oh, so we have three.
Austin: You have three group uses, and then Ali, you can roll it whenever the fuck you want.
Ali: Okay. “When you do so, explain how the crew helps you do this thing. They share in the consequences of the move, good or bad. You are responsible for their lives. If things go bad rolling for your traits, things go bad for you. If things go bad rolling plus Crew, you endanger everybody.” But I think basically is like, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] if you say, like, “I'm gonna do this action, but I'm gonna roll plus Crew instead,” you roll a plus 3 instead of what your trait would be.
Austin: Right. And you explain how that’s happening, right? 
Ali: Right.
Austin: So like, you know, if you're like, “Oh, I want to use—” you know. You're like: I'm not going to directly— I'm going to lead a charge into these Gambesons, but it’s gonna be with Griesel and the three Chariots that Griesel I guess is now pseudo in command of.
Sylvia: God.
Austin: You could roll Crew instead of rolling Clash, you know? Because you're doing it with the crew and not just with— because again, for the points of this conflict, that group counts as part of your crew, right?
Ali: Oh, wait, really?
Austin: Yeah, I said that earlier. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Dang. Okay.
Austin: They are part of your crew. Actually, I may have gotten one of their names wrong. I have to update one of their names, but yes.
Ali: I got Mr. Sunset on the comms right here? Commander Sunset?
Austin: You got Mr. Sunset. Commander Sunset is on the comms, correct. [Sylvia laughs]
Ali: Ugh.
Keith: Am I—
Austin (as Griesel): Commander Sunset on the comms. You need anything, Blue Channel?
Austin: Uh, what was the voice I had for Griesel? [Dre laughs] I don't remember.
Ali: I think he was a little more pathetic than that, but we were at a party. There’s commander version, and then there’s party version.
Austin: You're right, yes. Yes.
Ali: And I think at the party he was a little worm.
Austin: Damn.
Dre: Damn.
Sylvia: It’s pretty accurate.
Keith: Am I limited on Crew rolls in the same way?
Austin: Yes.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: You're not the Captain. You're a support playbook, but—
Keith: Oh, so that’s a Captain specialty. Got it.
Austin: That’s a Captain— being able to roll Crew whenever is a Captain thing, yeah.
Keith: Yeah, I knew there was a reason I was limited, I just couldn’t remember it.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: But whenever anyone rolls a 6 or below when rolling plus Crew, advance a gravity clock with someone who has put their trust in you.
Austin: Mm.
Ali: Which I think might only be Cori, at this point, because I don't know that— [laughs] Thisbe trusts me. Thisbe just thinks I'm not shit, which is fair. [Austin laughs]
Janine: I think Thisbe trusts— like, if Thisbe didn’t trust you, Thisbe wouldn’t call you Operant.
Ali: Yeah, fair.
Janine: So.
Austin: But you're just the same as every other operant, you know? It’s one of those situations.
Ali: Yeah, I'm oomfie; I'm not bestie. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: Mm.
Janine: Thisbe trusts a lot of people, until they do something to not warrant the trust anymore kind of thing.
Austin: Right. Yep.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: All right. You know what, I'm gonna make another different spy thing here also that says Escaped Spies so I can keep track of that also. Cool. [typing] Spies. There we go. All right, so, let’s— Thisbe, you rush off immediately. Even before Brnine can give orders, you're just out the fucking door as soon as Alpenglow starts talking, basically? You're like, “Ope, I fucking knew it.”
Janine: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: All right.
Dre: I think Figure is probably close behind, as well.
Austin: All right, cool. Let’s move yourself— you want to move up to near Thisbe? Presumably, Thisbe, you're with Mow here, right?
Janine: Yeah, this is a, like, “go to Mow and mobilize” situation.
Austin: Mow-bilize. Got it.
Dre: Mow-bilize, yeah.
Janine: Oh.
Sylvia: Mow-bilize!
Austin: Mow-bilize.
Ali: Ooh!
Austin: I have to put Mow on the board also.
Sylvia: God, Mow big.
Keith: Mow big, yeah.
Austin: Mow big. Okay. 
Sylvia: If I'm seeing half of our crew, like half of our pilots, heading to the Twill stuff, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] I might go try and help out the other Chariots, then.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Go ahead and move yourself.
Sylvia: Boop. Hi, dad.
Austin: I think he pops his head out the, like, gun turret at the top and gives you a little wave.
(as Griesel): Cori! Be safe!
Sylvia: [laughs] It’s really interesting watching a war machine suddenly wave really eagerly, [Austin laughs] but that’s what her mech does.
Austin: Ah. All right, so that leaves us with Phrygian and Brnine. 
Keith: Mm. Um…I’ll go with Cori. I'll even it out on these sides here.
Austin: Okay. So, everyone here is focused primarily here on taking out the enemies who are attacking, not on chasing down spies, for this first engagement.
Sylvia: No. Yeah, my priority is firmly protecting people here.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: I think that I could probably fictionalize this priority, in terms of I think that Brnine is in the helm but is also, like, uploading the spies doc to the Blue Channel so the mechs can be sent it.
Austin: Sure. That makes sense.
Ali: And having Asepsis be like, GPS track them. I don't know it’s like the fucking Batman, like, Asepsis can look at all the security cameras to find where the spies are, but… [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: That is a roll. 
Dre: You’ve got God’s Eye. [Ali laughs]
Austin: I've been thinking about this— God’s Eye. Jesus. We’re the goodies. You need to do a roll to identify who of that big list of people is here.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Which I think is a good first step for that. Let’s do that—
Keith: We’ve got one. One big one.
Austin: Yeah, yes. You do have one: Sea, who you know is here somewhere. You haven't seen since you left, obviously.
Keith: Right.
Austin: You don't know what he did as soon as you brought Marlon away. But yeah, you…there’s some sort of roll here for that, I think. And let’s do that first, before we get into— let’s do that as everybody’s moving into position. You're doing this kind of upload and getting Asepsis to try to like, you know, help identify these people by name. Or not by name, but by location. Like, hey, who are they, who is here versus who is at some other Violet Cove base or deployment or whatever, right? That, to me, sounds like Dispel Uncertainties. You're clarifying the unknown.
Ali: Sure.
Austin: You're being like, who here is…evil? [Austin and Sylvia chuckle]
Ali: Dispel Uncertainties. Uh, roll plus 1, but I…so, I can act with confidence twice per sortie.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Once per sortie. 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Twice per sortie, because it has two of these things.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: And I'm wondering if because it’s an Asepsis move…
Austin: Did you not do that once already, this sortie?
Ali: Oh, did I already do that once this sortie?
Austin: I think you did it once this sortie.
Ali: It’s per sortie, not session. Okay. 
Austin: Correct.
Ali: I will keep that in mind.
Austin: I'm pretty sure.
Ali: In that case, I'll probably just roll a plus Crew.
Austin: I was gonna say, yeah, you could just plus Crew it, right? You could have…
Dre: Mm.
Austin: This is a thing Hunting could be doing, right? Or that— is Asepsis part of the crew?
Ali: Asepsis is definitely part of the crew.
Austin: Oh my god.
Ali: Are you kidding me?
Austin: Yeah, then yeah, Asepsis… [Keith laughs]
Ali: Asepsis comes to movie night.
Austin: Uh huh.
Ali: No. Asepsis doesn’t come to movie night.
Sylvia: Oh my god!
Ali: Asepsis night is a little…
Austin: I mean, yeah, it’s different if Asepsis rolls versus if Hunting rolls, for sure, right?
Janine: Asepsis movie night is watching the DVD thing bounce into the corner. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. Hell yeah.
Sylvia: Degaussing the monitor a lot. [Austin laughs]
Ali: It’s loading screen week. [Austin laughs] 3d6. Or, it’s 2d6 plus 3.
Austin: 2d6 plus 3, yes.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: And again, is Hunting doing it? Or is…
Ali: Oh, no, I'm gonna—
Austin: Who in the crew is doing it?
Ali: I think that this is…well, Asepsis is part of the crew. I think that this is making Midnite go through the map of Violet Cove [Austin: Mm-hmm.] to upload the location data into the weapons frame or whatever the fuck Blue Channel bullshit.
Austin: Sure.
Ali: But Asepsis is the one in the system also…
Austin: Drawing up the connections. 
Austin: Okay, this person just checked in here.
Ali: Right. Right.
Austin: This person has used their ID there.
Ali: Right.
Austin: So, it…all right!
Ali: That’s an 11.
Austin: That is an 11, so that is a success. You, in fact, have this list of people and where they are, and I'm going to tell you who they are and where they are. Uh, let’s work backwards. How’s that sound? There is Zedd Z. Izzard, who is, I've written here, “dirtbag chef boyfriend.” [someone snorts] He works in the main hall. He is scruffy and lovable, and he knows everyone’s favorite food.
Keith: That’s redundant, by the way.
Austin: What, scruffy and lovable? Or dirtbag chef?
Keith: [cross] No, dirtbag and chef.
Ali: Aw.
Austin: And boyfriend? [laughs quietly] And he is kind of a social expertise. He knows everyone’s favorite meal. He’s in the main hall. The second one is Queue 1224, who is a non-Columnar synthetic. He works inside of the Thing Itself, the big Glass Archive, which I think I also, in my notes, have called the Planar Wing, P-L-A-N-A-R, in the way that a mirror can be just a flat plane, right? But is, you know, the Glass Archive is where he works. He prepares small parts of the Thing Itself for movement to the Convex or the Concave, and instead of having regular arms— he has arms that hover near him. He has a bunch of extra arms, and they hover around the torso, instead of being on his torso. The next one you know, and you know where— and so you know that he is probably at the Glass Archive directly. I'll list all these in the chat so that we have these.
Ali: Thank you.
Austin: Sea Crepuscule has gone missing. That’s the Master of the Concave. That’s the guy who you know you last saw here at the cave door, basically. And because he had heads up, he is not being found. He’s not gone, right? There’s no record of him leaving through any of the major exit ways, but he has seemed to go to ground and has hidden himself somewhere. So, you don't know where he is. Tea Time is the assistant to the assistant of Dicario St. Dicario. 
Ali: Five stars, Austin.
Austin: Thank you. Yeah, uh huh. And she is in the basement of the main hall, with a bunch of other people, sheltering. There is someone just named Kay, K-A-Y, and they are the cashier of the monastery treasury, and they are on their way to the park. I'm gonna write that down so people actually— you know what, let me finish talking, and then I'll write where everybody actually is. And then there is Bea, Bea Earlyday, who is, you'll see, the first of these Chariot pilots, heading towards the Gambesons in front of Griesel.
Keith: Easy.
Sylvia: Oh! [Ali laughs]
Keith: Easy! We’ll take out a couple of these guys, and then we’ll grab that guy.
Austin: Remember. Remember you get those pluses from capturing them, not killing them.
Keith: Right, right, right. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Not… [Sylvia laughs quietly] Yeah, it’s the other people that we’re taking out.
Austin: I see. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
Sylvia: That note’s actually for Cori, not Phrygian.
Austin: [laughs quietly] Uh huh. All right, everybody gets the upload with all of the names and their locations as I have pasted them here, except for the one that’s MIA. 
Action — Thisbe and Figure [1:21:47]
Austin: Let’s start, since, Thisbe, you moved out first here and loudest. You get to this kind of camp, which as been— you know, I want to make sure it’s clear that it’s actually not that ramshackle. Like, it is tents and modular buildings and stuff, but between the Twill, who are experts at living outdoors and who’ve been doing it for forever, and Twilight Mirage engineer-core, this place is like the reminder that you can live pretty comfortably outside of traditional buildings and stuff. But it’s also on fire now, as Durani, the leader of this kind of arson-focused Gambeson crew has started to go wild. What do you do?
Janine: Uh…what’s the most aggressive thing I can do immediately?
Austin: [laughs quietly] Great question.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Uh…so wait, hang on. Are they on the ground? Or they’re flying, right? They’re in the air?
Austin: They’re flying. Yeah, they’re flying. They’re aerial. I've kind of tried to gesture at that by having them be, like, a little angular, to be like, they’re doing strafing runs, you know?
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: But yeah, they’re flying.
Janine: Uh…oh, I can clear these Risks, can't I? Those are from the train thing.
Austin: Yes, you should.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: And they were just Risks, not Perils.
Janine: Yeah. 
Austin: The only current— really quick, the only current Perils are Figure, you have “scorched” still, right?
Dre: Uh huh, yep.
Austin: You don't have “living portal for the Iconoclasts.” You should clear that.
Dre: Oh, yeah, I should clear that. Thank you. 
Austin: Cori, you have “alienated,” as a reminder. And I think that that’s it, as far as current Risks and Perils go.
Janine: I have a sheathed weapon I would like to use, but I don't know if because it’s sheathed and it’s the start of a thing…
Austin: You could have unsheathed it on the way over here.
Janine: Okay. That’s good.
Austin: But that would mean sheathing the thing that you currently…
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: You know, switching it over, basically.
Janine: Yeah. I don't have my flight, my propulsion…oh wait, no, the propulsion’s not on Mow anyway. It’s on me.
Austin: It’s on you, yeah.
Janine: I always forget about that. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Right, okay. So, yeah, I have something called a Sonic Mortar 3. 
Austin: Okay!
Dre: Mm, mm-hmm.
Janine: It’s ranged, versatile, reload, drain.
Austin: Great. Love it.
Janine: This is how I've adapted the thing that Thisbe used to do where she would just scream. Remember? 
Austin: Oh, I do remember that.
Ali: Ohh.
Sylvia: Ooh.
Austin: Yeah, she used to just fucking scream.
Janine: Where she used to throw her head back and fucking scream? I've weaponized it.
Austin: So you've made that more intense.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: You've weaponized that. [laughs quietly] Okay, good.
Janine: Yeah. Mow has a thing that basically lets us direct that into, like, a thing. Like a…
Austin: Yeah. Is it like a sonic beam? Is it like a…
Janine: Uh…
Austin: Is it an ob— like, is it more projectile than that somehow?
Janine: Well, I mean, I did call it a sonic mortar, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: So it feels like it’s a sound bomb of some sort. Like, it’s like…
Austin: It like collects the sound and then launches it.
Janine: It’s like a grenade of screams.
Austin: Yeah. That’s sick, honestly. All right. That, to me, sounds like you're doing a Clash.
Janine: It sure does.
Austin: I can't imagine— or, sorry, an Exchange Blows: when you exchange blows with foes capable of defending themselves, roll plus Clash. They’re only tier two, but they are in a group. There are three of them. They are in a squad. So actually, you know what? You're in a squad too, though, so they don't have that advantage over you, because you're working with Mow and…I mean, I guess you're literally with Mow directly, but because Figure is here, the two of you kind of, simply by being here, cancel out that squad nature that they have, so they don't have that advantage. So yeah, go ahead, and you can roll with— oh wait, sorry. What is your…what is the element type, the approach type on this?
Janine: Uh, Mow’s stuff is alchemical mundane. I'm alchemical arcane. I don't know…
Austin: So, if Mow is mundane—which this is; this weapon would be mundane, since it’s coming from Mow—these are actually elemental. So, for the first time, here’s what’s weird.
Janine: Ugh.
Austin: You're gonna take advantage, [Janine: Oh.] because they’re a lower tier than you.
Janine: Huh.
Austin: But you're also going to have desperation, [Janine: Oh.] because they’re the better approach than you. So that means you're gonna roll 3d6 and take the higher two, but you're gonna treat 6s as 1s.
Janine: Oh.
Keith: And the order that this triggers, right, is…
Austin: We talked about this, right? Do you remember what we decided? 
Keith: I think that it’s if you…you convert the 6s to 1s and then take the highest.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: I think that that’s right. I think that that’s right.
Dre: That sounds like the most fair.
Janine: All I remember is that I feel like we had decided to do it in favor of players.
Austin: Of players, yeah.
Janine: In terms of like, yeah. But I don't remember what that meant.
Austin: I think that’s the most fair.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Let’s do that. Let’s do— so, 3d6.
Janine: Is there anything here because I'm protecting the Twill? Or is that only directly…
Austin: Uh, you could…I think we’ll advance your hook, your clock with them, rather.
Janine: Okay.
Austin: I think you could, instead of rolling Clash…what’s your Clash?
Janine: 2. So, I'm gonna stick with Clash.
Austin: [cross] So, instead of rolling Clash, you could be rolling your gravity thing, but no.
Janine: No, that’s okay. Yeah.
Austin: No, let’s go ahead and…but advance it by one. Advance their clock by one, you know?
Janine: Eeeh.
Austin: Well, here we fucking go. Miserable. 
Janine: Of course. 
Austin: Well…yeah, yeah. Wait, wait, wait. Did you roll plus…you didn't roll plus 3. 
Janine: Oh! I did—
Austin: So, we’re gonna take…all right. What you rolled here is 4—
Janine: Why’s it plus 3?
Austin: Or plus 2. What’s your Clash?
Janine: 2.
Austin: 2. So plus 2, not plus 3.
Janine: Okay, so it’s 7?
Austin: So, 3d6…yeah, let’s…you rolled a 4, a 6, and a 1.
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: Right.
Austin: The 1 stays a 1. The 6 becomes a 1.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: And you keep the 4. So, it’s 4 plus 5— er, sorry. 4 plus 1 is 5. 5 plus 2 is 7. So, yes, you got a 7 here. Not the worst roll in the world. [laughs quietly] 
Janine: Not great, but…
Austin: Not great. So, when you exchange a blow, on a 7 to 9, both you and your target are forced to take a Risk. I think that this is just, you know, you launch this sonic thing at this— you're launching this just kind of at the group, basically, right?
Janine: Yeah. I truly do mean it to be like a mortar. I imagine a big, like, thunk, kind of, you know? 
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, totally. Does it have…what’s it have? It has “versatile,” right?
Janine: Versatile, reload, and drain.
Austin: Versatile, reload. Yeah. Yeah, it has like that…does it make, like, the thunk of…does it make the thunk of a grenade launcher from Terminator 2, or does it make a thunk from, like, a depth charge going off? The two thunks in my brain. [Sylvia laughs] Or a third type of thunk.
Janine: Whichever one sounds more like there’s a tube.
Austin: That’s the Terminator 2.
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: I was thinking the grenade launcher guy from Team Fortress. That’s what I was thinking of.
Austin: Mm.
Sylvia: The Demoman?
Keith: The Demoman, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, sure, sure, sure. Yes.
Keith: Like thunk. Like that.
Sylvia: Good sound.
Austin: Because, as a reminder, you have versatile on this, so once per scene, you can use either defensive or decisive. Defensive lets you…you could reroll a failed Exchange Blows, so that doesn't come up. And likewise, decisive is a failed Strike Decisively, so you cannot reroll these, because these are not failures. Okay. So then, yeah, I think you launch this up, and it explodes, and there’s the great thunk sound and the explosion of your pre-charged scream? And that knocks…are you aiming at one of the…you have these three targets here. There’s Durani, who’s the leader who has— oh, here’s a question. Can y'all see the health bars I've put on these characters? There’s like a one of one and a two of two…
Sylvia: The, uh…
Keith: Yeah, the one out of—
Dre: The one out of one.
Austin: And then two out of two. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: All right. So, are you aiming for Durani, who’s the leader of this squad, or one of these lesser ones? Calliho or Prenti.
Janine: On the one hand, I would love to take out someone easy, but on the other hand, I feel like Thisbe, in terms of rushing in [Austin: Yeah.] and picking a fight, would go for the leader.
Austin: Yep. Yep. Sounds good. So then, yeah. I will give Durani the Risk “stunned,” as the sound— oh, you know, I'm gonna give Durani the Risk “grounded,” as the sound knocks him down to the ground, overwhelming him, and he has to do a quick landing. So, let me go ahead and…grounded, and drop that bar to one. However, you do get caught by that, like, ribbon of fire I mentioned and hit by one of these big train, you know, train spikes, like rail spikes that’s burning super, super hot. You can put whatever Risk down you want. Let me know what one it is, but Risks, as always, are things that players decide. As you get kind of impaled by this thing, or Mow does, I guess.
Janine: Yeah. Uh…maybe “gouged”?
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: Gouged! Yeah, gouged.
Dre: Oh, yeah, that’s good.
Austin: Love that. Love that. Staying over here, Figure, what do you get up to here?
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: I'm gonna bring this guy down so that we can tell grounded.
Dre: Um…boy, yeah. I think…yeah, this guy’s grounded, I think that Figure just charges in [Austin: Mm.] and goes straight at the leader.
Austin: Awesome. Let’s do it. Let’s again—
Janine: Fuck him up, Socrates.
Austin: [laughs] That, again, sounds like Exchange Blows to me.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Or actually, is this a thing where…I’m just trying to remember something. Can you just Strike Decisively against someone who’s one below you, once you get them down one? Let me see something. [typing]
Dre: Oh, maybe.
Austin: Let me see. Let me see if I'm wrong about this.
Dre: And what is their approach?
Austin: They are elemental.
Dre: Okay. How does—
Austin: You are profane, right?
Dre: Yes.
Austin: You have— you, my friend, have confidence against them.
Dre: Oh, perfect. Great.
Austin: I'm just gonna check really quick on tiers. I may have been misremembering how tiers work. Uh, take advantage when— okay, yeah. We did it right. I did it right! Take advantage when acting against someone one tier lower than you. If they’re two or more below, you can go right to striking decisively. They’re not two or more below; they’re one below, and so you take advantage and confidence on this one, Dre.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: So, 3d6, and 1s equal 6s. What are you doing? Tell me what it looks like.
Dre: Um…boy. Okay, so, what does it look like for this mech to be grounded? 
Austin: I think that he’s just been stunned from the volume and surprise of the sonic mortar and so, like, literally just hits the ground, kind of across on the other side of this camp where you are. So just like, if he can take, you know, 30 seconds to clear his head, could launch again, you know? But I think actually, you know, it’s like the iron maiden’s wings have closed around the body of the mech, so it’s like the doors have shut, almost in defensive mode, you know? It’s almost like, okay, shields up, and that means it can't fly right now.
Dre: Mm-hmm. Let me…I’m gonna roll, and then I will— well, okay. I'm glad I have confidence and advantage.
Austin: Oh my god. All right.
Dre: Because I rolled two 1s. [laughs] 
Austin: You rolled 1, 5, 1, plus 2, so that is in fact a 14! [laughs] 
Dre: Uh huh. It’s the best roll you could get, that I could get right now.
Sylvia: Holy shit.
Austin: That is damn near the best roll you can get. What are you doing? Also, again, on a 10 plus on Strike Decisively—or, sorry, on Exchange Blows—either the opponent takes a Risk, or you take a Risk and put your opponent in Peril.
Dre: Boy. As it lands and the wings or the— is it the wings or the chains that you say wrap around itself?
Austin: The wings closed in around itself to kind of protect it, you know?
Dre: Sure.
Austin: The wings, again, being the iron maiden doors, so “protect” is really…you know.
Dre: Yeah. Yeah, uh huh. As soon as it touches ground, Figure is there and uses…the Devil’s Two Front Teeth just, like, tears the wings off.
Austin: Oof.
Dre: And kicks the cockpit in.
Austin: Uh, you're not getting a kill here.
Dre: Oh, that’s right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, I just tear the wings off. Right. I can't finish it, because I'm not striking decisively.
Austin: You cannot finish it. Correct.
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: I was just gonna make a joke about cracking it open like a chipmunk with, like, a chestnut.
Austin: Oh my god.
Janine: And then you did it, with the teeth.
Austin: You did it! Uh huh.
Dre: What’s the name of the guy that we could have killed but didn't that tried to make me a portal?
Austin: Kenneth Marian Colver.
Dre: Cool. As soon as I tear the wings off this thing, I make a broadcast that everyone can hear.
Austin: Uh huh.
Dre: And Figure just says:
(as Figure): Kenneth Marian Colver, you had your chance, and now you will never leave this planet. 
Austin: [laughs quietly] Ahh.
Ali: Damn.
Austin: Damn. Okay. Durani, inside, looks very scared, looks up at you very scared. You take a Risk for this, right? Because this is a Peril. You ripped the wings off. That’s not gonna repair that with some downtime, right?
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Or without some downtime. So, I want you to take the Risk… [sighs] You tell me what the Risk is, because that’s how that works, but here’s what happens.
Dre: Oh, wait, hold on.
Austin: What’s up?
Dre: What is the thing I get for rolling a 14 on Exchange Blows? Don't I get, like, a choice?
Austin: You get a choice. You took the choice. You picked Peril, right? It’s either you give Risk, or you give Peril and take Risk.
Dre: Okay. Is there any mechanical difference to me giving this person a Risk versus a Peril, at this point?
Austin: If you ripped their wings off, that’s a Peril.
Dre: Okay. Gotcha.
Austin: They can’t get it back. They couldn’t escape behind the corner.
Dre: Okay. Yeah, no, sure.
Austin: You see what I mean? Whereas… 
Dre: That’s way cooler. Let’s just do it that way.
Austin: Yes. Exactly. [Dre laughs] Well, then you take a Risk based on this.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: You look down at them as you send that message out, and they are terrified, and you realize that you're closer to them than you thought you were.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: You're also—
Keith: To the prisoner that’s being forced to fight?
Austin: To the prisoner who’s being forced to fight, yeah. You're literally in a— I mean, you know, who is this person? You know, what did he…he’s clearly…there’s a way in which…you know, he was still about to kill a bunch of innocent people. You don't do that. I don't want to make a false equivalency here, right?
Dre: Sure.
Austin: But, insofar as you’re killing someone who was imprisoned by this empire that you want to destroy and who looks up at you and you recognize yourself in him, in the sense that if Clem asked you to do something like this a year ago, three years ago, four years ago, when you first started doing this [Dre: Mm-hmm.] and you felt even more trapped than you do now, could you have said no? Maybe you did do shit you're not proud of, you know? Maybe not as bad as this, but there’s—
Dre: Sure. Assuredly so.
Austin: That hits in some way. So, take a Risk appropriate to having looked at this person and seen a little more of yourself than you would have liked to.
Dre: Um, I'm gonna take the Risk of “holding back.”
Austin: Mm, interesting. Okay. Fun. Which brings your Channel up to 3, because the more Risks and Dangers you have, [Dre: Uh huh.] the more your Channel goes up.
Dre: Yep.
Austin: Love the Imposter class. All right, let’s hop over to Phrygian and Cori.
Phrygian and Cori [1:38:01]
Keith: Hello.
Austin: As you fly over your dad, Cori. [Dre laughs] Phrygian, as you…what are you doing? Are you jumping around?
Keith: Flying over Cori’s dad.
Austin: Can you fly?
Keith: I can fly. Yeah, I can fly.
Austin: Damn, you got aerial?
Keith: Yeah, from the jump, I got aerial. We actually used it in the first fight.
Austin: Oh, we used it right away. Yep.
Dre: Oh, yeah!
Keith: Yeah, we used it right away.
Austin: We did.
Sylvia: Ironically, the girl with wings is the one who isn’t able to fly here.
Austin: Oh.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: I assumed you had aerial. Damn. 
Sylvia: No, I don't.
Austin: All right, so you're running. You're on the ground.
Sylvia: Yeah. I got…I do the like— you know in Armored Core when you boost [Austin: Mm-hmm.] and the back has the jets and shit?
Dre: Boy, do I.
Sylvia: It’s that.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Phrygian’s looking like…Austin, you know the big sky stingrays from KOTOR? 
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: So, it’s that but a big sky octopus, but if you look closer, actually it’s a Michael Bay transformer.
Austin: Oh. Great.
Keith: Like, very greebly and metal and…
Austin: Well, it sounds like— are you mech sized? We need to do that move.
Keith: Yeah, I gotta do this move.
Austin: Let’s do the move, which is…
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Which is The Beast Within, right? 
Keith: I gotta roll Defy.
Austin: Yeah, “Somewhere deep within you lurks an ancient magical entity fighting to get free, but you keep it in check, one of the few with the ability to do so. You may roll plus Defy to release this ancient power and enter your Ascended form. While Ascended, you count as tier three and go toe-to-toe with Astirs. All of your Miscreated gear is accessible to you and counts as tier three while Ascended. On a 10 plus, hold three. On a 7 to 9, hold one. On a 6 minus, hold one, but the director chooses one.” What did you roll there?
Keith: 12. 
Austin: Oh, you rolled a 12. You're doing just fine.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: So, that means you can use the hold one-for-one. Two, take a risk to Strike Decisively against someone who’s not defenseless.
Keith: Yep. Yep.
Austin: Swap two of your traits until the end of scene; change your approach, which is elemental, for one attack; or Exchange Blows with confidence. Once you run out of this hold, you transform back into your original self at the end of the scene, retaining any Dangers. Importantly, so, you have 3 hold here.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Give me that 3 hold. Put it up there.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: You can do other— you don't have to do just these things, right? So you could just regularly exchange blows, still at tier three.
Keith: Right. This is the same as Fero’s move, basically…
Austin: Yeah, it’s very similar to that, yeah.
Keith: From the Hieron seasons, where I could do whatever I want, but to do these extra special moves, I have to spend my hold.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Exactly. 
Keith: Of which I have three.
Austin: I think you should advance your Own Self Be Clock on this. [Sylvia laughs] I think every time you transform feels like a moment of being in touch with yourself in some way and thinking about what it means to be Ascended, right?
Keith: Okay. Yeah.
Austin: And as a reminder, oh, you also have Morphic Aura.
Keith: Right. Yeah.
Austin: Which lets you do another interesting thing.
Keith: It does.
Austin: Which I'll just let you use if it comes up.
Keith: Well, I want to rewind to that if it ends up being applicable, but the thing that I want to know is: have we fought these? Because, you know, we’ve been on the planet for a while.
Austin: You have, yeah. I don't…
Keith: Have we fought these things before?
Austin: Um…up to you. You know what? Up to you.
Keith: Okay. Well, I just want to, like…you know, we touched on this a little a second ago, but I was sitting thinking about the prisoner dilemma.
Austin: Ah.
Keith: And this— not that one, but our one.
Austin: Mm-hmm. [Sylvia laughs] Wait, which one? Because I kind of think there’s two active prisoner dilemmas. There’s you’re fighting a bunch of people who have been forcibly imprisoned by the Principality and the only way that they can see themselves getting freedom is by fighting for them, the way that you were with the Rapid Evening.
Keith: Right. Yeah.
Austin: And there’s also the “I want to turn some of these people into prisoners” problem.
Keith: Oh, right, yes! [Dre laughs] 
Ali: Ohh.
Keith: I meant the first one.
Austin: Okay, sure.
Keith: I meant the first one, not the second one.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: And then the one that you knew that I meant that I didn't mean is the game.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Keith: The game where you try to get someone to betray someone else.
Austin: Right, the prisoner dilemma being…
Keith: That also was in KOTOR.
Austin: Yeah, it’s in every Bioware game.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Where there’s— you have to— we’re not gonna get into it. Google the prisoner dilemma. I'm not gonna tell you what the prisoner dilemma is.
Keith: Right. Right. There’s a game show of it too.
Austin: That makes sense.
Keith: There’s a British game show where it’s just the prisoner dilemma. One guy gamed it so good that they canceled it. He did such a good job.
Sylvia: And if you're curious about the prisoner’s dilemma, I have some visual novels to recommend. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Ah, interesting.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Okay, so. I want to know if these are potential recruits or if I just have to kill these people.
Austin: I mean, I don't know, dude.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Are they potential recruits?
Keith: They could be!
Austin: Sure. Are you asking, “Can I save these people or do I have to kill them?”
Keith: Right, yes.
Austin: Yeah, okay. I don't know. Can you save these people or do you have to kill them? Uh, you're asking, “Has this happened before?”
Keith: Right, this is like—
Austin: And I'm gonna say no, because it’s more interesting for you to have to make this call here.
Keith: Right. Yeah.
Austin: Because the answer is like, yeah, of course it could happen.
Keith: Right. Okay. Yeah, I'll do it.
Austin: So I don't know. 
Keith: Yeah. What is—
Austin: I'm not trying to be flip. You know, it is…the ambiguity is important to maintain, right?
Keith: Okay. So, I guess what I'm thinking is, you know, what would it look like mechanically? I'm trying to find where the mechanics are. It’s not a typical thing where it’s like, oh, you know, there’s a chance that you could, you know, find a key to your enemy’s mech, and then they become your friend.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: Or whatever.
Austin: I think this is a play to find out what happens. You have to do it to do it, right? So like…
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Are you trying to talk them into coming with you? Are you trying to [Keith: Okay.] literally free them from the machine? Are you trying to…like, what’s…we have to lead with what you're doing, you know?
Keith: Yeah. I think that I want to…I think I want to free them from the machine.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: I can’t Talk, and Talk is like—
Austin: Wait, why can't you talk? Oh, oh, you mean you're bad at talking. 
Keith: I'm just not that good at it.
Austin: You don't have good Talk.
Keith: Yeah, I'm bad at talking.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: But, uh…hmm. But I could use something that I've never used before, which is I could swap two traits to get plus 3 Talk, plus 0 Defy.
Austin: You could. Mm-hmm.
Keith: And I could even switch it back.
Austin: You have enough hold to do that, yeah.
Keith: I have the hold. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. I would like— yeah, I'm gonna do that. I'm gonna use my hold to swap Defy and Talk to give myself plus 3 Talk, and I'm going to fly to the red mech.
Austin: Okay. And what are you saying? What is your offer, so to speak? How are you trying to convince this person to throw down arms?
Keith: I'm just going to tell them that if I free them— ask them, 
(as Phrygian): If I free you, will you stop fighting?
Keith: And I'm not even going to approach the potential recruit thing. I just want to neutralize an enemy by setting them free.
Austin: Right. Okay. Give me a…this is still a Clash, but this is a classic roll Talk to Clash.
Keith: Right. So, I'm just going to roll Defy, because it’ll be easier. 8.
Austin: And that is an 8. So, on an 8 on an Exchange Blows, you and your target are both forced to take a Risk. I think that they take the Risk, uh…what’s the word I'm looking for? Not floundering, but you have kind of caught them—
Janine: Faltering?
Austin: Faltering is what I'm looking for, yes. Faltering. That doesn't stop, though. In fact, I think you immediately see part of how they keep this from happening, which is you take the— again, you will take the Risk yourself. From somewhere, a shot rings out. You hear the laughter of…it sounds like what if there was a— what if you made a machine— oh, what if you made— you know when they do, like, hard drive music? You know what I'm talking about?
Keith: Oh, yeah. I love that. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: I genuinely love these. 
Austin: What if you did that and then made it do, like, the sound of a fox laughing?
Keith: Oh, yeah, I could hear that.
Austin: You hear that, and then there is a loud ring out of a shot being fired from a sniper rifle from somewhere, and you just get fucking hit with it. Take a Risk that is like getting winged by this sniper rifle. Again, it’s not a Peril, so it’s not so bad that you're knocked out of action or anything like that, but you take a Risk here.
Keith: Right. 
Austin: So, someone somewhere is watching this happen. So yeah, you've made Free Fidelity, the person you're talking to, falter here. I think that they respond back, like:
(as Free): You can't promise me that!
Austin: And before you can say another word, this shot rings out from somewhere, and you've been sniped.
Keith: Okay. I'm gonna take the Risk “dazed.”
Austin: Sounds good.
Keith: “Dazed” or “grazed”?
Austin: Either one makes sense.
Keith: I'm gonna take “grazed.”
Austin: Take “grazed.”
Keith: That’s more risky.
Austin: Mm-hmm. [Sylvia laughs] Cool. Cori, as this is happening, what are you doing? Also, you should be able to see I've added the spies to our incredibly busy map. 
Sylvia: Ooh.
Austin: Kay, Bea, Tea Time, Zedd, Queue. The only one missing here is Sea, who you don't know where Sea is.
Sylvia: So, Keith, you were talking to the red one, you said?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Oh, I should lower the red one’s HP, so to speak. Boop. There we go.
Sylvia: And you're trying to sort of peacefully resolve that situation, yes?
Keith: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Okay. So, not the red one. 
Austin: [laughs] Ah!
Sylvia: Yeah, I'm gonna…I think this one on the left here.
Austin: Beliah?
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: Sure. Okay. 
Sylvia: Listen, these people are attacking my people, so.
Austin: Mm-hmm. These ones or the one that you're gonna charge at has a big warhammer in its hands, and because she has this warhammer, the warhammer has bane, which means that even though she’s a lower tier than you, you don't get advantage against her.
Sylvia: Mm.
Austin: So, just a straight up exchange of blows.
Sylvia: And what does the other one have?
Austin: Oh, they both— I guess, no, the other one… [Sylvia laughs] The other one is— and they’re both flying, actually, so you don't have advantage no matter what.
Sylvia: Oh shit! Okay. 
Austin: Right? You're on the ground, right?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Do you not— you still don't have a ranged weapon, right?
Sylvia: I don't have a ranged weapon, no. I could throw my mace.
Austin: You could throw your mace.
Sylvia: [sarcastic] That will go great.
Austin: You could use Crew to order Griesel to shoot the gun on the top of the APC. [laughs] Yeah, you could throw your mace and then not have it. That’s fun.
Sylvia: [laughs] I can't do that, because I realized my sword’s broken, so. [Ali laughs] 
Austin: Is your sword still broken? Oh, when did your sword break?
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah, last time.
Austin: You didn’t fix it.
Sylvia: My sword— I didn't fix it in downtime. I forgot.
Austin: Ah, that’s so funny.
Sylvia: Yeah, I was too busy doing movie night. [Austin laughs]
Dre: You know what? Fair. 
Ali: Damn.
Austin: Damn!
Sylvia: I think my priorities were straight, you know?
Austin: Yeah, I got you. I got you.
Sylvia: I think they were right.
Keith: I mean, Devotion is a very…proselytic? What is the word that I'm looking for?
Austin: Like, proselytizing? 
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Yeah. I know what you mean.
Keith: That makes sense. It makes sense to me, you know?
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: They love to make friends.
Sylvia: They do! Except for now, where I am going to tell my dad to start firing.
Austin: What do you say? I need to hear this.
Keith: Papá!
Sylvia: I'm trying to figure out the exact wording, because I think she is very straightforward and kind of commanding about it, in this sense.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: It’s like, oh yeah, no, this is a military operation. It’s military Cori time. I think she just straight up, like, refers to the group as a unit. She says, like…she is like: 
Sylvia (as Cori): I'm gonna need all the Charioteers and the APC to start firing at the…at the enemy combatants, so I can get within striking range of them.
Austin: Love it. All right, give me a Crew roll.
Sylvia: That’s plus 3, correct?
Austin: That’s plus 3.
Sylvia: That’s an 11, baby!
Austin: That’s a fucking 11.
Keith: Nice.
Austin: All right.
Keith: Very nice.
Sylvia: 4 plus 4 plus 3.
Austin: It is. Let me quickly see if there is a cannon equivalent here for what’s on the back of this.
Sylvia: I'm wondering if this is also— this can be— so, I have 6 spotlight to spend on an advance.
Austin: Oh, you do.
Sylvia: Is a thing. And the move I was looking at taking, actually, isn’t a roll but I think fictionally [Austin: Mm-hmm.] would fit if I took it now.
Austin: Which is?
Sylvia: Which is Inspire Focus: once per sortie, you may take a visible position over the battlefield and inspire confidence and clarity in your allies that see you. They each clear a Risk and take advantage to their next roll.
Austin: Love it.
Sylvia: I think, like, the scene of Cori at the front of these three— is it three Chariots? Hold on.
Austin: It’s three Chariots, yeah. Bea is also in a Chariot.
Sylvia: Three Chariots and this APC. Like, directing traffic and stuff [Austin: Mm-hmm.] would be a pretty good way to introduce that.
Austin: I love it. Great. Yeah, do it.
Sylvia: Cool. Okay.
Austin: Go ahead and take it. And that means, Phrygian, you can clear that Risk. You can clear “stunned.”
Keith: Sick.
Sylvia: I will mark that I have used it.
Austin: The cannon of Griesel’s APC fires high and has the following tags, I’ve just kind of looked it up: area, bane, messy, reload. Thankfully, it’s a success, so that messy doesn’t come into any trouble here. [Dre chuckles]
Sylvia: So my dad didn’t shoot me?
Austin: Yeah, your dad didn’t shoot you.
Dre: Boo.
Austin: And instead, I'm gonna give all three of these “grounded” as the kind of flack fire drives them low, which makes all three of them defenseless, at least for this moment.
Keith: Oh, damn. Okay.
Austin: Let’s swing over—
Keith: Now, is this a separate health bar for red here?
Austin: No.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: No, because the health bar is just to get them in a kill state.
Austin: That is correct.
Sylvia: Like, you don't have to Strike Decisively.
Keith: Well, one of the ticks was from talking, and the other one—
Austin: Doesn’t matter.
Keith: Okay. Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: It is kind of not about that. It’s about the idea of, like, they are in a fictionally worse position in the sort of, [Keith: Right.] like, the frame of the camera, right? And in this case, you can even directly think about it as, like, yeah, okay, well, they were faltering, and now they’re stuck on the fucking ground as this cannon fire has driven them lower.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: If they were already faltering, that’s not great, you know? 
Brnine [1:53:40]
Austin: Uh, Brnine, Blue Channel. You have a pretty good view of the battlefield, and things seem to be going okay, except for two things. One is this big sniper, who you can see is probably somewhere in or around the Glass Archive, like the rooftop. That’s kind of where that shot rung out and hit Phrygian.
Ali: Mm.
Austin: And then, two, Tenn Alpenglow, who is in a gigantic castle mech, who is clearly starting in on some sort of ritual to enhance this slow flooding of the place. And then, three, the Kestral White, a ship equal to yours in power—seemingly equal to yours in power—which you can see it’s just finished reloading and is getting ready to launch a new volley across the entire battlefield. What do you do?
Ali: Yeah, that’s not great.
Austin: Mm-mm.
Ali: I…aha. So, I had one idea which is that I could out-sniper the sniper.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: But I could out-sniper the sniper by shooting the castle and being like—
Austin: The castle meaning Tenn Alpenglow, [Ali: Yeah.] not the monastery castle thing.
Ali: Right, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Ali: To be like, “There’s only one sniper here, buddy, and it’s me.”
Austin: It’s me. Yeah, uh huh.
Ali: So put your sniper away, because I'm better at this.
Austin: Okay.
Ali: And I'm just…sending Jack this mp3.
Austin: Is that the…that is N3w Rules?
Ali: That is the N3w Rules sniper on, um, buh-buh-buh-buh…
Austin: It’s mundane, bane, mounted.
Ali: Cause factions— yes.
Austin: Yeah. Okay.
Ali: New with a 3, by the way, because…
Austin: Yeah, mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Ali: Brnine is goofy coded. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Keith: [Goofy voice] Yup.
Sylvia: Tummyachepilled and goofy coded.
Dre: [Goofy voice] Gawrsh. [Ali laughs]
Austin: I guess, actually, are you rolling Clash or are you rolling Crew? Is this also Crew because it’s actually not Brnine pulling the trigger, it’s Routine?
Ali: Yeah, I think this is Routine. I think this is a Routine— put this in your Routine fancam.
Austin: Mm-hmm. [Sylvia laughs]
Ali: But yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm gonna roll plus 3, and then I'll describe what happens when I see how I do. 2d6 plus 3, right? Is how you play the game?
Austin: I believe that that’s right, but one second; let me just make sure that our…again, you have to take— this is desperation, because it is elemental, and this gun is mundane. So, 2d6 plus 3, but 6s equal 1s.
Ali: 6s equal 1s, and bane…
Austin: Doesn’t come up.
Ali: You suffer no penalty against opponents one tier above you.
Austin: Yeah, it’s one tier below you, but it doesn't matter here.
Ali: Oh, because it’s an elemental? It’s like the Pokémon thing and not a level thing.
Austin: Yeah, this part of it is that, yes.
Ali: Okay. Okay, okay, okay.
Austin: And it has…you are one tier above it, though, so let me just double check what its set of things are to see if it has a thing that can counter that or not, because this might be the same situation that Thisbe was just in, the weird advantage but also desperation. I just have to look at its thing really quick. Stat line…uh…oh, right. Okay, I got it.
Ali: [cross] While you're looking this up, the…
Austin: Go ahead? You were gonna say?
Ali: You got it?
Austin: Yep.
Ali: [laughs] I was just gonna put in some lore. The reason it’s called the N3w Rules is because, in my secret lore, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] when the Blue Channel was being worked on in the beginning…five years ago, four years ago, when the Blue Channel was being worked on by the Oxblood crew [Austin: Mm-hmm.] to, like, adjust all of the weapons for this new shit, it was originally an N3W coded whatever.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Ali: And because they, like, [laughs] attached new scopes to it and made fancy…
Austin: And now it’s— yeah, uh huh.
Ali: They gave it a funny name.
Austin: Great. Love it. 
Sylvia: I love it.
Austin: All right, so yes, you're gonna take advantage, because it is— you are a tier above it. But also, you're rolling with desperation, so 6s equal 1s.
Ali: Okay. But still—
Austin: So, 3d6. 3d6 plus 3.
Ali: 3d6, okay, okay.
Austin: Because of advantage. Yep.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: 3d6 plus 3. All right, 5 plus 4 plus 3 is 12, right? Is that right? That feels right.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: All right, so—
Ali: Do—
Austin: Mm-hmm?
Ali: Is this 1 a…we just ignore the 1?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: We ignore the—  the 1 is a 1.
Ali: Okay. Okay. 
Austin: The 1 is a 1, in this case.
Ali: So, that’s a 13, or…?
Austin: That is a 12, a 12. 5 plus 4 plus 3 is 12. I believe I'm right about that? I believe my math is good. We just ignore the 1 entirely, yeah.
Ali: Okay, okay. Okay, okay, okay.
Austin: So, yeah. So, that is a 12, which is a complete hit on this. What is, uh…you can, again, either give it a Peril and you take a Risk or just give it a Risk.
Ali: Um, how about I give it a Peril and I take the Risk something like…like, “located” isn’t that, but like, being targeted, maybe?
Austin: Targeted. Targeted.
Ali: Like I'm able to be locked onto? 
Keith: Exposed.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: I mean, maybe just “locked onto.”
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Or “exposed.” Yeah, “exposed” is pretty good.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: But yeah, “locked onto.” Yeah, the Kestral White has now— when you hit Tenn, who like, you know, this heavy shot slams into the concrete— or not the concrete, but like the stone armor on this castle-style mech, and it, you know, breaks apart, and he takes that one big heavy step back, and when he does and he slams his foot onto the ground, the entire area around this park splashes up with water as the place continues to flood. It’s starting to flood in a real way here. Let me add this thing. What did you give—? You gave him a Peril, so what’s that Peril that you want to give?
Ali: Is “shattered” appropriate?
Austin: Sure.
Ali: Is— okay.
Austin: Yeah. So, it’s like the armored layer has broken off, so you can see the more, like, you can see parts of the frame underneath, and you can see that the frame almost looks like…you know, musculature? Not human musculature, but like robotic— or actually like Branched-style, Phrygian-style wires and cables and things that are pulsing, not in mechanical ways, but in organic ones, underneath the kind of stonework of this castle front. As the fight continues here, the flooding gets worse. Simply, each round that this goes, we get more and more flooded. At this point, the Cave is now flooded basically to the top. All that stuff—
Keith: Their tomahto fields are gonna be totally waterlogged.
Austin: It’s so bad for the tomahto fields.
Sylvia: Oh no!
Ali: Ohh.
Austin: And the area—
Keith: The flotbread is doing really good, [Austin laughs] nice and wet and plump.
Austin: The area where the Plackart is, the park itself, everything except for the center area is now aquatic. Being on the ground means being in water for— I'm gonna just put a big red or a big blue box around the stuff that is aquatic now, which means if you don't have the “aquatic” tag, you're at disadvantage.
Dre: Ugh.
Austin: And it’s all of this. Griesel’s APC just, like, comes to a halt, as the water starts to pick up above his APC, not treads, but the wheels. You know, it’s not quite floating yet, but it’s getting there. 
Keith: Do I have—
Austin: This is up to your knees or your shins at this point. What’s up?
Keith: If I've got “aerial,” do I still have disadvantage, if I'm above the water?
Austin: You do not have disadvantage, because you are above the water. Correct.
Keith: Okay. Got it, okay.
Austin: Things that are grounded do have disadvantage, though, including…
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Including their own units, like the Gambesons.
Keith: Right.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: But not the sniper, who is still hidden somewhere above you.
Keith: Right.
Austin: Brnine?
Ali: Austin, you know more about chess than I do, but I think that when the camera is on Routine and he sees that he lands a shot, [Austin: Uh huh.] he smirks and says, like, the equivalent that’s below checkmate. Like… 
Dre: Mate?
Austin: It’s check. It’s when you put someone in check.
Dre: Er, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Okay. Yeah. [laughs] 
Austin: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Uh huh. 
Sylvia: [laughs] It’d be really good if he said “mate.”
Austin: It would be. [Ali laughs]
Keith: “Mate.”
Austin: “Mate.”
Dre: I'm thinking of “check and mate.” [Austin laughs quietly] Which is a thing I feel like I've heard. 
Keith: You’re in mate.
Dre: I don't know if that’s real.
Austin: Yeah, people will say that. It still just means checkmate, but yeah.
Dre: Yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Yeah, just checkmate but dramatic.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Thisbe and Figure [2:02:44]
Austin: All right, let’s come back to the Twill and Twilight Mirage area here. We still have two of those active ones flying around and attempting to lay waste to this place, and we have the one who’s on the ground, Durani, right in front of the Figure. What are the two of you getting up to, Figure and Thisbe?
Dre: Hmm.
Janine: I forgot I had a grappling hook.
Austin: Ooh.
Dre: Oh. That seems like a good thing to have.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: It’s in my gear here. [laughs quietly] I forgot.
Austin: Important one.
Janine: I'm gonna grapple. Can I grapple hook to one of the flying ones and just get in there?
Austin: You can fucking try, yeah, sure.
Janine: All right.
Austin: Is this you? You're doing this, or is Mow doing this?
Janine: This is me. This is like…
Austin: Okay. This is your grappling hook.
Janine: I don't know if I could pull Mow.
Austin: Mow big.
Janine: Mow big, yeah. I don't know if the horn on his back would come off or if Thisbe’s legs would come off. 
Austin: [laughs] Uh huh. Yeah.
Dre: That does seem like a good way, though, to drag someone down to the ground.
Austin: Oh, true!
Dre: Such as in the hit blockbuster Fast 10.
Janine: That is true.
Austin: Was it a hit?
Dre: I don't know, was it? I didn't see ticket sales numbers.
Austin: Numbers weren’t great. 
Dre: Oh.
Austin: Numbers weren’t great, yeah. They were fine, but you know. Anyway. Yeah, either one of those makes sense to me. Doing a little lasso.
Janine: I would kind of…mm. I would like to get off the ground as part of it.
Austin: Sure. So you do want to get up there. You want to grapple hook your way up into the air.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: To one of these Gambesons. All right. I think that’s a Defy more than a…because that’s not gonna harm it directly. You're gonna put yourself in a position to harm it, right?
Janine: Hmm.
Austin: Or, more importantly, I think if you're trying to get up there, that’s a Weather the Storm. Like, you have to succeed [Janine: Yeah, okay.] at doing it before you do the next part of whatever your thing is, right?
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: So. All right.
Janine: I'm gonna roll that with Channel, then, which is 2. 
Austin: What’s that look like that you're rolling with Channel?
Janine: I think this—
Austin: How is this channeling your arcane core in some way?
Janine: Well, it’s, um…so, I have input channel with Mow, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] which lets me, specifically for Weather the Storm, roll Channel. I think, in this case, it is a sense of, like, kind of… [sighs] You know, Thisbe’s Defy is bad. That’s why she’s bad at Weather the Storm.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: But I think, paired with Mow, it is kind of a different thing. There’s like a— I don't want to say a resonance there, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] but kind of a sense of like, you know, the whole thing is the mechanical and magical interaction, right? Like, that’s…
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: And I think it’s just like, when they are together, there is a sort of more unifying thing that lets Thisbe—
Austin: Things are clicking in a way that’s…
Janine: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Yep. All right, let’s do it. Plus 2. 2d6 plus 2. All right, that’s a 10. What’s it look like as you scramble onto, let’s say, the nearer one, Calliho.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: This one right here. What’s this grapple hook sequence look like?
Janine: I kinda think it’s just like, grappling— I don't remember the context of the grapple hook. I think I might have just taken it straight out of the book, because I had the gear for it, so I don't know if there’s a special…
Austin: Yeah, I think you found it from…
Janine: Oh, right! Yes.
Austin: I think you got it during one of the previous downtimes.
Janine: Yes. No, no, it wasn't during downtime. I think it was the first downtime, right? 
Austin: Yep, I think it was the first downtime. 
Janine: When we were sort of clearing stuff out in that—
Austin: When you were going through…yep. Yep.
Janine: Yeah. Okay, I remember this, yeah.
Austin: Totally.
Janine: Yeah, I think this is a thing of like Thisbe shoots the hook, maybe at, like, sort of the shoulder of this iron maiden-like thing? 
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: I want it kind of in a corner, like a crook area. And Thisbe sort of lets go of Mow but uses that little riding horn to sort of kick off as she retracts the grappling hook.
Austin: Mm. Love it. All right, you're up there. Let’s stay on this for a second. What are you hoping to achieve from on top of this flying death machine?
Janine: So, I have this little thing called Sparking Touch.
Austin: Ah. Uh huh.
Janine: I just really want to fuck this thing up, and I want to get it…
Austin: Yeah. 
Janine: I want to just cause problems.
Austin: Well, and this is exactly the use case for it, right? Because Sparking Touch—
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: What are the tags on it?
Janine: Melee and bane.
Austin: Right. And so, bane, even though you're tier one as Thisbe, [Janine: Mm-hmm.] bane lets you suffer no penalty against opponents one tier above you, which this is.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: So you can just straight up, you know? You can just straight up clash with it. Give me that 2d6 plus your Clash, which is 2, right? Oh my god, you just grappled onto here and are about to…
Janine: I mean, this is, to me, the test that translating this character to this system has worked.
Austin: Yep.
Janine: Because this is what Thisbe did all the time in PARTIZAN [Austin: Mm-hmm.] was be on Mow for a bit, then jump off and just tear into someone. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Yep, totally.
Janine: And just fucking go, so.
Austin: All right, well, that’s an 8.
Janine: Yeah. I'll take it.
Austin: So, you're also going to get, yeah, torn into here. I think that you do the zap, and the thing that maybe you didn't account for is the electrical energy ignites the fuel tank on this thing.
Dre: Uh oh.
Austin: These things have a weapon, their kind of flamethrower. The flamethrower has “dangerous,” and what dangerous says is it’s a negative tag, and it says pretty straight up: “Volatile or difficult to use safely. Dangerous objects invite dire consequences if not used carefully. Once per sortie, the director may upgrade a Risk you acquire while using something dangerous to a Peril.” So, it is going to take a Peril here, instead of a Risk. It’s just going to take “scorched,” our classic “thing got burnt so bad that it’s fucked up.” But you are also going to get caught in this explosion, so take a Risk associated with getting burnt badly, as this thing turns into a fireball in the sky and comes crashing down, with you on top of it, presumably, right?
Janine: Yeah, I was gonna say, I wonder if the Risk has to do with the process of falling on a fireball [Austin: Sure.] and not so much the fire.
Austin: The heat, yeah.
Janine: Like, I think it’s more interesting of like, yeah, you need to regain your footing after some shit like that. 
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Like, this is some “the elevator is falling, and you have to jump at the last minute” stuff.
Austin: [sarcastic] Yeah. Yep. That works. That’s science. You can just jump, and it’s fine.
Janine: Ughh. Maybe like “staggered” or something?
Austin: That works for me. Yeah. And that is your second straight Risk, [Janine: Yeah.] so you're at two Risks now. Is it helpful if I add the same bars to y'all that are on the enemies? Like, health bars?
Dre: Sure, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: All right, let me do that real quick. A quick note: you may have seen that I have disappeared Zedd Z. Izzard from the spy list.
Keith: Oh.
Dre: Oh, sure, yeah.
Austin: You don't know where he went.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: He disappeared. 
Keith: Okay.
Austin: He’s not…Asepsis is reporting, no longer in the kitchen. Has disappeared; has stopped cooking.
Ali: Oh, because they’re escaping.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Well, you'll note I haven't advanced Escaped Spies yet, so, [Ali: Ooh.] still in the wind right now, you know?
Ali: Reaching the points.
Austin: But reaching the points.
Ali: Have not extracted yet.
Austin: As far as we can tell, exactly. Let’s stay over on the eastern side, though, here. Figure.
Dre: Sure.
Austin: What are you up to?
Dre: Um…I guess I'm gonna Strike Decisively against—
Austin: On Calliho? The one who got exploded?
Dre: Yeah. Mm-hmm.
Austin: All right. I think that this might be a little risky, because you're still standing on top of Durani, who is not strike decisived against, right? You've not already Striked Decisively on Durani.
Dre: Oh, no, that’s who I meant. Yeah.
Austin: Okay. Gotcha, gotcha, gotcha.
Dre: The person who I de-winged. [laughs] 
Austin: Yes. Okay, that makes more sense, yeah. Okay.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Sorry about that. Yes. All right. Let’s Strike Decisively. What are you doing?
Dre: I am not trying to kill this person.
Austin: Mm.
Dre: I am trying to just disable their mech.
Austin: Okay. You already ripped the wings off. Now you're, like, getting rid of the weapons or something?
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Okay. Cool. Give me a Clash.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Strike Decisively with Clash. What is—
Dre: And do I still have all of the stuff?
Austin: All of what stuff?
Dre: Do I still have advantage and…?
Austin: It’s the same breakdown as before, yeah.
Dre: Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Which I think for you is both advantage and, uh…
Dre: Mm-hmm. Confidence.
Austin: Confidence because of your…
Keith: Pretty good deal.
Austin: Because of your really rolling it right. All right, yeah. 4 plus 4 is 8 plus 2 is 10. So, Strike Decisively—
Keith: Great rolls today.
Austin: Yeah, incredible rolls. “You strike true. Director characters are killed, forced to retreat, or otherwise removed as a threat per the fiction. Player characters should Bite the Dust.” You go ahead and tell me: what’s this look like?
Dre: Um…really what I— and you tell me how much this can happen.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Dre: I would like it to be disabling the mech and then basically Figure opening the cockpit to tell this person, like:
(as Figure): Get out of here. I'm gonna make it look like I blew up your mech, so they don't know. They think you're dead. You're free. Get out of here.
Austin: As they go to get out of the mech, the fuel explodes, and they die in your hands.
Dre: Mm…
Austin: Move them off the table.
Dre: [sadly] But I rolled a 10, Austin.
Austin: I want to be clear: you didn't do that.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: That was a trigger.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: They pulled themselves out to flee, and the way that they’re wired up is, for at least these fire ones, they exploded instead.
Dre: Yeah. Makes sense. Bad people.
Austin: Bad fucking people. Like, truly terrible people. But hey, you managed to Strike Decisively. That’s…
Dre: Yaaay. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: You know, you did manage to protect some Twill folks over here from being killed by these, you know, Pyre mechs, so.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Phrygian and Brnine [2:13:51]
Austin: All right, let’s swing back over to the west side, which is now mostly underwater. Cori, Phrygian, what are you up to? Sorry, I moved you over a little bit, Cori, since you were leading the charge with these Chariots.
Sylvia: Yeah. Yeah, no worries.
Austin: This whole group is on the ground now: Beliah, Feste, and Free Fidelity, the three leaders of— or the three other Gambeson pilots here.
Sylvia: Yeah, Keith, did you have something you were planning on— because I…
Keith: Yeah, I was going to…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I was going to continue to sort of, you know, talk about getting— I was basically gonna try to barter, like, “Hey, if I can get this sniper, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] would that give you enough cover to, you know…”
Austin: Get out of here, basically.
Keith: To like, surrender, basically. To power down or—
Austin: They are all…what’s the word I'm looking for? Defenseless. They’re all defenseless now. They’re all down to no kind of protection left. So, you could try to talk them into not being in combat anymore, but if your hope is that they would…I guess my question is what you're prioritizing. Are you prioritizing going after the sniper, or are you prioritizing convincing them to stand down?
Keith: Uh, I'm prioritizing…I’m prioritizing convincing them to stand down, but only insofar as them standing down doesn't get them shot by the sniper.
Austin: But you can't promise that, because the sniper is still in the wind.
Keith: Which is why that was gonna be the thing, like, “If I get this sniper, will you…”
Austin: Right, but that’s not gonna— if they say yes, my response to that can be them getting killed, right?
Keith: Right.
Austin: I'm just, you know.
Keith: By the sniper?
Austin: Hmm? Right. Or—
Keith: By the sniper? Okay.
Austin: Yeah, by the sniper. Correct.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Like, even if you succeeded on convincing them, that wouldn't stop the problem that you've identified, which is…
Keith: Right. The sniper.
Austin: Or, you know, who knows what the sniper’s focus is even here, right?
Keith: Right. Well, the last time I checked, they were shooting at my head.
Austin: That is correct, yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Or shooting at the—
Austin: They were shooting at you. Yeah.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: So, uh, then let me just do that. I will hope that they get the message, but I'm gonna go take out the sniper.
Austin: All right, well, let’s see if you can find them first. How are you trying to locate this sniper?
Keith: [sighs] Um…well, I did get grazed.
Austin: That’s true.
Keith: So, that should give me some idea of the direction.
Austin: You think that they’re—
Ali: Can I—
Austin: Yep, go ahead.
Ali: This is so annoying, and I hope it’s not annoying, [Sylvia laughs] but I was hoping to, like, locate the sniper. Could I, like, come in in turn, in order to locate it for Keith, so Keith can like actually attack? Or is that, like…
Keith: Yeah. I'll allow it. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Dre: “I'll allow it.” [Sylvia laughs]
Ali: Okay. [laughs] 
Dre: This motherfucker.
Austin: Absolutely.
Ali: Because I would love to roll with confidence here and have Asepsis do, like, a…I’m even willing to launch, like, a couple Asepsis drones here, to be like a…
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Ali: Like a— I'm gonna look through the combat zone.
Keith: [sarcastic] Brnine is willing to use Asepsis? 
Ali: [laughs] Well, it usually stays on the ship.
Sylvia: [sarcastic] Brnine is willing to use drones?
Ali: I know. No, I know. But like a bird’s eye view.
Austin: Let’s— you're launching them to try to— this is Read the Room, right?
Ali: Sure. Okay, sure.
Austin: This is when you read the room to get insight on your situation, right?
Ali: Oh, yeah, this is Read the Room. Okay.
Austin: This is Read the Room. So. [Sylvia laughs quietly] Are you using Crew, since you're using Asepsis? Are you using Sense? What are you using?
Ali: I am probably gonna use Crew here but roll with confidence, which means 1s turns into 6s, question mark? Is that it?
Austin: That’s correct, yep.
Ali: Okay. So that—
Austin: And that’s using your force multiplier Asepsis thing is what that’s using, right? Once per sortie, per drawback, you can use confidence? Is that correct?
Ali: Yes, this is my second.
Austin: Okay, so that means you're out of that for this sortie.
Ali: Right.
Austin: Gotcha. Okay.
Ali: Unless…this is a little weird, but would it be better to use my one hold to give Keith advantage on his next move?
Austin: You can do both.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: Fictionally, you don't know where the sniper is, so solving that…
Ali: Okay.
Austin: One of you will have to solve that first, no matter what, right?
Ali: Okay. Let me do that, then.
Austin: All right. So, go ahead and roll with confidence. 2d6 plus 3, and then 1s count as 6s.
Ali: Okay. 
Austin: Because of confidence. 
Ali: Which is— [laughs] 
Austin: Well! Which is real useful, because you rolled a 1 and a 1!
Sylvia: Wow!
Austin: You snake eyesed, except it’s 6s. What’s double 6s called? What’s the word for that?
Sylvia: Uh, bug eyes.
Austin: But eyes. That’s what we call them. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Yeah.
Ali: Oh, that’s divine power, baby. [laughs] That is failing upwards.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh. 
Ali: Lord in heaven. My god.
Austin: It’s boxcars is what it’s called. Right, of course, it’s boxcars. So yeah, you fucking nailed it.
Ali: Boy.
Austin: That’s a 15. That is the highest roll in this game. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Wow.
Sylvia: God damn!
Austin: Well, on a 10 plus, hold three. You can ask any of these questions: who has the upper hand here? What is being overlooked or obscured here? Where do my hooks pull me here? How does X really feel? What is X’s approach? How is X at risk or peril? And where can I find X? And roll in advantage when you act on these answers.
Ali: Absolutely. What is being overlooked or obscured here?
Austin: There is a new type of mech out and about here. It is a…buh-buh-buh-buh-buh. Let me get the right name here. I believe it’s a Gorget. G-O-R-G-E-T.
Keith: Sounds like a weird vegetable. 
Austin: A gorget is like a piece of armor that covers your neck. It is a bright and fashionable machine. It’s long fingers are clad in golden armor, but it’s hidden playfully in a chic red hunting cape. When it walks around, its posture is buoyed by a fashionable walking cane, but at a whim, the Altar’s pilot may extend the length of the cane, surrounding the entire body with a magical camouflage, cloaking it— er, sorry, extend the length of the cape, surrounding the entire body with a layer of magical camouflage, cloaking it from both sensors and plain sight, and at that moment, its cane twists and folds, revealing itself to be a perfectly honed rifle. It’s sort of like a— you can imagine this as what if a— what if you took a more medieval approach to, like, British foxhunting gear? You know, the kind of red— that big red hunting coat [Keith: Mm-hmm.] and the khaki colored, you know, uniform, except it’s like armor instead, and it’s a cape instead of a coat. And it is on top of the Glass Archive, kind of bouncing around between the two sides. Its cape or its cloak is still technically up, but you have— so, visibly, you cannot see it, but Asepsis has identified its location for you, at this point. So, it is right here, and you will see now that it is being piloted by Kensley Marlowe Colver, who is, of course, Kenneth Marian Colver’s sister.
Ali: Oh.
Austin: Hopping around up here and on a little hunt for herself, laughing to herself and her mech continuing to laugh with these kind of like mechanical fox laughs. But you know where she is, so that’s one of your three hold on questions. You have any other questions? You want to save them?
Ali: Um, I…and that, uh…
Sylvia: Mm?
Ali: There’s a “Where can I find X?” that I think I'm gonna keep in my back pocket until I want to use it later, probably.
Austin: Sure. Yep.
Ali: But I would love to know where my hooks pull me here, just to have a little fun and gain some information.
Austin: And read me your hooks.
Ali: My hooks are: The crew put their faith in me, so I must prioritize their safety; I will prove that Millennium Break [Austin: Mm.] can change lives; [laughs quietly] and Asepsis would like me to verify the integrity of anyone I let on the ship.
Austin: Okay, so, Asepsis immediately is like: you're fighting alongside a spy in Bea, right? Bea is one of the Charioteers. She is literally right behind Cori in this moment, right? And could turn on Cori in a second, right? So Asepsis is like, “Look at this! Look at this! Look at this! One of your crew members is about to fucking die.” 
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Also, really does ID the remaining members here. Kay, one of the other spies—I want to say Kay was the treasurer—is literally swimming across this flooded battlefield towards the Park of Devotion to where they hope to escape the fight and go to the place that Tenn said you could go to if you were willing to basically be conscripted and, quote, unquote, “saved” by throwing yourself on the mercy of the Principality. And then, I think, more broadly, your hooks around proving Millennium Break can change lives…you realize that this is a place where you can do some PR work for yourself. You could be louder about being the heroes of this moment, right? There are ways that you could be like, “Hey, we’re saving Violet Cove.” You know, talk some shit. Let people know the Blue Channel is here, you know? I think that there’s part of you that thinks about that as being: how are people gonna tell the story about what happened here? And how do you make sure that this doesn't become a Gucci success story or a Griesel and Devotion success story, et cetera.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: So I think those are the places your—
Ali: Or that it doesn't look like we came here, let this person out of their prison, and then they attacked.
Austin: Right, and then they fucked everybody up. 
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, exactly. Yes, totally. Totally. [Ali laughs] And I'll give you one more thing, which is Asepsis picks something up in the long range sensors. Someone is incoming from another direction, from towards where there’s another Violet Cove base to the south. So, you know, another tar— another maybe not a target. You have another high speed mech charging towards you. Anyway, Phrygian, you know where this mech is.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, I do, and…
Austin: Brnine, are you giving them advantage on their next move?
Ali: Yeah, I think so. I feel like I'm spending all my fancy tokens.
Sylvia: Uh, can you have advantage twice? Because I have given Phrygian advantage on their next move.
Austin: Oh, you're right, Phrygian already has— you're right, Phrygian does already have advantage.
Sylvia: If you want to hold onto that, then…
Ali: Oh, okay, then let me…
Keith: Ooh, okay.
Austin: Yeah, that makes sense. That makes sense.
Keith: And advantage…
Austin: 3d6.
Keith: 3d6. Got it. Okay.
Austin: As a note, you— sorry, Phrygian and Cori, y'all don't have a gravity clock, right? No, you don't. Okay.
Keith: No.
Sylvia: No.
Austin: All right. So, what’s this look like, Phrygian?
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Hunting the hunter.
Keith: Well, we’re role reversing. I turn invisible.
Austin: Mm.
Keith: And—
Austin: Which you can do— is that one of your things that costs you something?
Keith: Nope. It’s an Ascended upgrade. I just can do it. It’s the same thing as being aerial or aquatic.
Austin: The important thing— isn't there an important thing about it, though?
Keith: Mm…
Austin: Is there not? Maybe I'm wrong about this.
Keith: No.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: Your Ascended has access to camouflage able to blend into its surroundings— oh, when standing still. So I have to be still.
Austin: Yeah. You have to be still. That’s the thing, right?
Keith: So, I'm—
Austin: So you can get up there and go invisible, but while you're moving, you will not be invisible.
Keith: Well, I don't have to move, because I'm actually gonna swap Defy and Talk. I have plus 3 Defy.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: And I am going to shoot with my big breath gun.
Austin: Ah, where are you standing?
Keith: I'm like…yeah, there we go. Okay, that worked. This is where I was. I was where red is.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Because you were talking.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. So, that’s the thing. I don't think you can get a— you can't get a direct line.
Keith: I can't get an angle? 
Austin: No.
Keith: Okay. I thought they were, like, on the edge looking over.
Austin: She is able to— she has been moving around on top of this thing [Keith: Okay.] and is still invisible to sight. You know where she is, like, you know that she’s up there, but you're going to have to get a more direct line. She has an incredible advantage. I mean, I guess what I would say is I would let you roll it at disadvantage because of the fact that she has— because she literally has the highest ground here, it’s very hard for you to snipe up at her without her [Keith: Okay.] just disappearing behind the incredible cover that is a whole building, you know?
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Also a whole building still filled with people who are hiding, you know?
Keith: Yeah. Okay, well, then, can I rewind and we can sort of reframe what was going on here? 
Austin: Yeah, totally.
Keith: Because I have, I think, never used my Caustic Breath move. 
Austin: You, in fact— maybe you've used it once, but here is the point at which you're like, you've upgraded it now, so…
Keith: Yeah, it is no longer messy.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: So it—
Sylvia: [chuckles] You got better at it.
Austin: You got better at it.
Keith: Yeah, it’s not gonna splatter off the sides of this thing and start melting my friends.
Austin: Exactly.
Sylvia: Yay.
Keith: Or any of the Violet Cove people.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: So, instead of…I’m still going to swap Defy and Talk again, so I'm 3 Defy. Can I blast myself up to the roof, aerial— like, you know, get in the air.
Austin: Using aerial, yep.
Keith: And just spray this roof with Caustic Breath.
Austin: That would be Clash still, not Defy.
Keith: Oh, right, Defy.
Austin: Yeah. Mm-hmm.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Defy is about weathering the storm, to do something safely under pressure, whereas you're looking to Exchange Blows, which is…
Keith: Yeah, it’s just because Defy gives me, like, a bunch of combat moves.
Austin: Yes. I getcha.
Keith: So I'm used to thinking, “Oh, Defy, that’s what I do in my mech,” but that’s not really true.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: So, forget about that. We’re not gonna switch.
Austin: You're just gonna roll.
Keith: But I am gonna— I'm just gonna roll Clash.
Austin: All right, 2d6 plus 1 with advantage, so 3d6. 3d6 plus 1.
Keith: 3d6 plus 1. Okay. 
Austin: And I'm letting you roll that straight up too, because…is Caustic Breath— oh, Caustic Breath is not aerial. Huh. It’s just ranged and elemental, huh?
Keith: Right, right. But I'm aerial.
Austin: But you're aerial. Okay. Um…okay. There we go.
Keith: Great roll.
Austin: Great roll. Incredible roll.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: That is a 12.
Keith: Wow. A 6, a 5…
Austin: Yeah, 6, 5, 5, plus 1. You just take the highest, so that is a 12.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Do you give a Peril and take a Risk, or do you just give a Risk?
Keith: Um…I don't have a Risk right now. I'll give a Peril.
Austin: Okay. What Peril are you giving to Kensley?
Keith: Um…big hat.
Austin: Sorry, did you say “big hat”?
Keith: Yeah. Apparel? [pause, then Keith laughs loudly]
Sylvia: Oh my god. Shut the fuck up!
Ali: Mm, mm, mm-hmm.
Austin: Mm, corny.
Ali: Five stars.
Austin: Mm-mm.
Keith: Thank you. Let’s see. Uh, “corroded.”
Austin: Corroded, fun. Fun.
Sylvia: Ooh.
Austin: Uh, that might be— oh, it’s a Peril, so yeah, that’s perfect. Yep.
Keith: Yep.
Austin: Love it. Love it. Uh, add that…
Keith: And in this instance, do you give me the Risk?
Austin: It’s still a Risk, so you still take it.
Keith: I still take— okay.
Austin: And I think the thing that’s happening here is, you know, I would say that the situation is that now you are flying high above everything else, and it’s very easy to imagine that you now [Keith: Yeah.] have the attention of not just this one person you're fighting but also Tenn and the crew of the Kestral White and some of the other folks who you've left on the ground, right? As you do this, I think, in fact, one of the other Gambesons who had been…god, what did they have? Did they also just get grounded from the— yeah, they did, from Griesel’s attack is what happened there, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: One of them, Feste, gets back up and is flying again, as you, you know, are just busy doing this other thing. So yeah, you kind of have the attention of everybody here, so take a Risk associated with kind of getting a target drawn on your back in some regard.
Keith: Okay. Yeah, I'll take “targeted.” 
Austin: Love it. Great. 
Cori [2:30:59]
Austin: Cori.
Sylvia: Yeah, hi.
Austin: You still have two Gambesons in front of you that are defenseless, Beliah and Free Fidelity. Free Fidelity is the one who we know used to be part of Reunion, the pro-Delegate group that is lead by August Righteousness.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Austin: And you have the Chariot Mk I’s and your dad behind you, backing you up. What do you do? And again, it’s aquatic, so you're all just in the sloppy water. It’s just messy and gross and, you know, moving slower than you should.
Sylvia: Yeah. But they also are, so it balances out.
Austin: Yes, it balances out. They do not have aquatic. And again, one of these spies is literally just swimming towards Tenn Alpenglow in the park, the Park of Devotion.
Sylvia: Yeah, that’s…so, okay. We are still on…the Phrygian sniper gambit to sort of get the Gambeson— they’re Gambeson units, right?
Austin: They’re Gambeson units, yeah, mm-hmm.
Sylvia: To stand down. That still going?
Austin: It is.
Sylvia: So, if I kill them, I would be kind of fucking that whole thing up? [Ali laughs]
Austin: I think you would be.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: So, but I know—
Austin: They are defenseless, and at this point, Kensley [Sylvia: Yeah.] is engaged with Phrygian at least, right? So like, the kill…it would be hard for her— I think if she decided, at this point, “I'm gonna go try to kill Free Fidelity,” that would let Phrygian put a hit on her for free, you know what I mean?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: She would be turning her back on a fight that she is now in, in a different way.
Sylvia: And we…I know that that’s a spy? Like, I'm aware, that’s like on my displays or whatever?
Austin: Kay’s a fucking spy. A hundred percent, yes.
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Spies.txt and your very trusty Devotion, Asepsis, has pointed them out to you.
Keith: And you have a little note somewhere that says, “Remember not to kill the spies.”
Sylvia: Yes. [Austin laughs quietly] Yes. I'm thinking very hard. I put a sticky note on my display.
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Can I— hold on. I'm like, what move is “grab spy with hand”? What— [Keith laughs]
Austin: I think that’s probably Strike Decisively. These are tier one people. They’re just people, so you can Strike Decisively against them.
Sylvia: I just don't want to kill ‘em, you know?
Austin: I mean, that’s about the roll, isn’t it? That’s about do you roll good or not, you know?
Sylvia: It sure is. Oh. Okay, I'll roll to see if I Suletta this person or not.
Austin: Oh my god. Roll plus Clash. What’s your Clash, again?
Sylvia: Okay. Uh, plus 1?
Austin: Mm-hmm. 2d6 plus 1.
Keith: And a success would mean not accidentally squashing this person in your mech hand.
Sylvia: Not accidentally squashing. 
Austin: There’s other consequences that it could be.
Sylvia: It would be like sort of picking up, like, a baby bird or something.
Austin: Right. Yeah, uh huh.
Dre: Sure. Uh huh.
Sylvia: But Captain says we gotta get the spies back.
Austin: Uh huh. 2d6 plus 1.
Sylvia: And like, fucking, the Chariots and shit can handle the Gambesons if they try anything.
Austin: Oh, that’s a 5.
Sylvia: That’s a 5.
Austin: That’s a 5.
Sylvia: Ooh, 5. So, I'm gonna just be quiet now.
Austin: Kay slips right through your fingers. You do not, in fact, crush Kay. Kay literally slips between your fingers. You can't get a good grip with all the water.
Sylvia: That’s fine.
Austin: And that’s not the worst of it.
Sylvia: Oh shit! Okay.
Austin: The…where are you at here? Let me take a look here. You have “alienated” currently?
Sylvia: Yeah, I'm alienated.
Austin: Take the Risk “betrayed.”
Sylvia: Fuck!
Austin: What type of weapons do the Chariot Mk. I’s have?
Sylvia: I think they are also using, um…
Austin: The mace? The morningstar and shield?
Sylvia: The sort of like— yeah, I think they’re a little less flashy looking. They might just be, like, hammers as opposed to like…
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm. Oh, do they have this type of warhammer that has, like, the spike on the back end?
Sylvia: Yeah, sure—
Austin: [cross] Well, that goes into your fucking back.
Sylvia: So you can stab me in the fucking back, Austin.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh. Uh huh. [Sylvia laughs] Actually, you know what, don’t take “betrayed.” Take the Peril, uh…
Sylvia: Oh, Peril.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Uh…like, the thing— okay, so this is someone who has piloted a mech like this for a long time, and she hits you right in the place that connects you to the machine and lets you do Devotion magic shit.
Sylvia: Oh, fuck!
Austin: So she, like— take the Peril “severed.”
Sylvia: Really good. Really good.
Austin: Which is, I'm imagining, either upper back or like mid back, you know?
Sylvia: Uh, could I suggest something?
Austin: Oh, please. You tell me.
Sylvia: Which is that she broke the halos.
Austin: Oh, she broke the halos! I love it.
Dre: Oh no!
Austin: A hundred percent, yes.
Sylvia: Because it hasn’t been brought up too much onscreen, but the way that Cori communicates with the mech is she has her own, like, little halo doodad going on, so.
Austin: Right. Uh huh. And she has kind of basically flipped over you to be on the other side, with the other two Chariots and Griesel on your south, and now she and the two Gambesons who are faltering—or one of whom is faltering and one of whom is grounded—are on your north, and is kind of like holding the hammer at your…the spiky end of the hammer over your heart or over your cockpit, right? Almost like you’re hostage, at this point, you know?
Sylvia: Fuck.
Austin: So, that’s what happens when you roll a 5. Kay is in the wind. Escaped Spies: one.
Sylvia: Sorry.
Austin: You know, that’s how it goes sometimes.
Sylvia: I tried!
Ali: You did great.
Sylvia: Thank you, Captain. [laughs] 
[“Nothing is Stationary” by Jack de Quidt plays]