Palisade Post-mortem TONIGHT 6:30 PM ET ON TWITCH!
Transcriber: Daneran
Ali: Hi everybody! This is just a little, tiny, bite-sized, less-than-five-minutes announcement. Um… There were some question last week — in my last announcement — whether this week we were gonna do the PALISADE post-mortem or if we were gonna have a Ten Year Anniversary Stream and just do some other stuff… Um. The answer’s kinda both. 
Because if you go to Twitch.tv/friendsatthetable right now, there’s streaming happening, that’s just, like, sort of fun and casual and celebratory. But! If you go to Twitch.tv/friendsatthetable tonight at 6:30 PM Eastern Time, we will be having our livestream of the PALISADE post-mortem. Thank you for everybody who’s sent in questions — we will be answering some of those. We won’t be answering all of them! But we will be answering a bunch of them. And… you should tune in! It’ll be fun.
We’ll be also announcing the winners to the giveaway that we’re hosting. If you don’t know what giveaway I’m talking about, I suggest that you go to friendsatthetable.net or scroll on the… [chuckles] podcast app that you’re currently using and look at the… the last post in the feed, because there’s a lot of information there that I’m not just gonna repeat right now.
Right now we’re just, sort of focusing on telling you that tonight at 6:30 PM Eastern Time on Twitch.tv/friendsatthetable there will be the PALISADE post-mortem. It is also the tenth anniversary of Friends at the Table so… [sighs] I don’t know! [laughs] I, um… 
I don’t wanna keep the feed empty when I have the opportunity here just to say: thank you to everybody who’s ever listened to us. Um. Thank you for all of the support people have shown us. Thanks for telling your friends about it. Thanks for making fanart. Thanks for organizing events. Thanks for coming to our meetups and our shows when we were doing that. And, you know, here’s… Here’s to another fucking ten years, I guess. I don’t know. Um… 
But yeah. This is a big day. And… I’m not gonna speak to everybody in the cast here, [chuckling] there’ll be more chatter about this later tonight, I’m quite sure. Um… But that is it for me, right now. Twitch.tv/friendsatthetable. If you can’t make it tonight, the… the audio of the livestream will be in the feed next Thursday. And… Yeah.
Thank you so much. Have a beautiful Thursday. Have a wonderful weekend. If I see you in chat tonight, shout-outs. If I don’t, thank you for listening, thank you for subscribing. Um. And yeah.  Thank you very much. Goodbye PALISADE.         Hello to the future. Um. Talk to you tonight! Bye!