Bluff City 44: Engines on the Track Pt. 03
Transcriber: robotchangeling


[music in background: “Engines on the Track”]


Austin: You hear a door SLAM open, and Pluperfect in a bathrobe STOMPS down the stairs and yells:


Austin (as Absolute): Who put sour cream in my bath?! 


Austin: And now you have a moment to maybe make a maneuver upstairs. 


Austin (as Ronnie): Beep boop boop boop beep boop.


Sylvia (as Wrench): Hey, I do that too. 


Austin (as Ronnie): [chuckles] It makes me feel like a hacker, like from a movie.


Sylvia (as Wrench): Yeah, yeah.


Austin (as Ronnie): Boop boop boop boop, beep boop, boop. Beep boop boop beep. Boop beep. Got it! There it is. Jackpot Supreme. It's hard to even conceive of this, but there was a time—it’s my understanding—when Blough City and Bluff City didn't exist, or they didn't…you couldn't just get there. People didn't know about them. I know it doesn't make any sense, because the history books all say that they were founded around the same time, that they were sister cities. I know that that's what we were taught in school, and that's what everything…it seems like that's what reality is, but reality used to be different. And I know– [chuckles] you're looking at me like I'm making it up. I promise you this is the truth. And there are forces beyond our comprehension—beyond a vampire or an alien, though an alien’s probably closer—that have been conspiring against the people of this city, against the people of all three of our cities, and changing things and making it weirder. And there are people who know that I investigate that type of stuff, and if I get closer, it's like it follows me. You understand? It's like I carry it around with me, because I'm part of it. They're going to enter that thing, the Jackpot Supreme, in the Tri-City Classic, and whatever that big weird magnetic tape thing that they were loading in there is, that's no good. I saw things like that when I was a kid, and it was doing weird things with the tunnel, making people disappear and whatnot. And they're going to do something like that again, I'm pretty sure. Maybe bigger. I need you to blow that thing off the road. Don't let it finish the race.


Ali (as Froggy): Finally, a job for us. Got us sneaking around all over town.


Austin (as Ronnie): You did a good job! I’m impressed.


Ali (as Froggy): We race cars!


[recap and music end]


Austin: Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast focused on critical world building, smart characterization, and fun interaction between good friends. I'm your host, Austin Walker. Joining me today, Sylvi Clare.


Sylvia: Hey, I'm Sylvia. You can find me on Twitter at @sylvibullet, and you can listen to my other show Emojidrome wherever you get your podcasts.


Austin: Ali Acampora.


Ali: Hi, you can find me over at @ali_west on Twitter, yeah, and find the show over at @friends_table.


Austin: And Art Martinez-Tebbel.


Art: You can find me on Twitter at @atebbel, and I guess you already know about friendsatthetable.cash if you're here. 


Austin: Probably.


Art: So I won’t tell you again.


Austin: But hey, in the case that you're listening to this in a car and someone's playing it or we eventually put this on the main feed or something… 


Art: Sure.


Austin: You can go to friendsatthetable.cash to support us on Patreon.


Art: If you're playing this for people in the car who don't like know who we are…


Sylvia: We have had this conversation.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Art: It's weird. 


Ali: Why is it weird?


Ali: Why is that weird? 


Art: Like, this is the third episode or whatever of a…


Austin: Yeah, but maybe they’re listening on a road trip.


Ali: Yeah, I’m driving around. I’m listening to what I gotta listen to.


Art: Oh, and they’ve played all the episodes before.


Austin: Yeah, sure. Maybe not. Who knows?


Art: All right. Okay.


Ali: Maybe not necessarily.


Art: Maybe this episode is so good that someone's like, “You gotta listen to this out of context”?


Ali: You have to–


Austin: We don’t know what’s gonna happen yet. We haven’t recorded this. People right now are like, “You have to hear this bit. It happens seven minutes into this episode. We should just start from the top. They do a whole funny bit up top about this scenario.”


Ali: You just have to– 


Art: All right, we only got three minutes to get there.


Sylvia: This is a lot of pressure, Austin.


Austin: I'm just saying: we don't know what the future holds.


Art: But you said “seven minutes.” You didn’t say like half an hour. You said…


Austin: I know, well–


Art: It’s basically gotta be this now.


Austin: It is pretty funny. [Austin and Art laugh] As we continue to talk about it, we raise the chances that someone tries it, which is actually going to doom them, because it's not that funny.


Ali: Mm…


Art: No. I know when we're about to have a good bit, and it’s not now. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Mm-hmm. Sci-fi racing RPG Gravity RIP by Luke Westaway, illustrations by Colin Craker. Let's just jump back into it here. The end of the last session, y'all had finished investigating on behalf of one Ronnie Highsmith Jr. Y'all had dug into what Pluperfect Holdings Incorporated was getting up to, and it seems like they have been working on behalf of someone else—someone in the mayor's office, someone in a different city, who could say?—to fuck with, to potentially do some weird Bluff City/Blough City/Bluffington Beach/Tri-City Tunnel Project hijinks, quite like what we saw in our Tales from the Loop game. And to do that, they've been building a big truck-slash-tank called the Jackpot Supreme. In the middle of the Jackpot Supreme—besides it being well armored and having a bunch of fucking guns on it and a pretty good engine—was a strange device called the MP Shift that seems to threaten the world in weird metaphysical ways, and they're going to run it as Absolute Pluperfect’s car in the upcoming Tri-City Classic, a sort of postseason charity race. I don't know what the charity is. Maybe each city has a charity, you know? That's kind of fun. I don't know what they are yet, but we'll get there or we won't. And with this information, you have now been hired one more time by Ronnie to get out there on the track and run this thing off the road. I guess, before we get to that race itself, which will probably be the rest of this whole arc, y'all should all be a little bit richer than you are. I think Wrench, you wrote this down, but between the two jobs you did, you should each have 10,000 more credits than you ended up with at the last race.


Ali: [laughs] I added 1,000 more credits. [Sylvia laughs]


Austin: Mm, it was 10,000.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: It was 5,000 per step in that job, so there you go.


Sylvia: I actually didn't add any, so I'm going to need another 10,000. 


Austin: Damn, are you just that rich?


Sylvia: Yeah, I’m just very rich. No, yeah. [Ali laughs]


Austin: God damn. And, as a reminder–


Art: I didn’t know it was 10,000 each. I thought we were splitting 10,000. This is, uh…


Austin: Oh, maybe I did say…mm…


Sylvia: No, no, no.


Art: I think it was 10,000 each.


Sylvia: It was 10,000 each.


Austin: I think it was 15 and 15, right? 15 for the first job…


Art: So that’d be 10,000 each.


Austin: So that'd be 10,000 each, yeah. Yeah, that's what– yeah, mm-hmm. The first part was 15, the second– 


Art: I hear it was 30,000 each. 


Austin: Okay. Great. [Sylvia laughs] 10,000 each. As a reminder, you can buy volts, which are your repairing and upgrading currency for 2,000 a pop, and you can upgrade a stat at 15 volts, which I think most of you should be able to do? Right, I think you can all do it now. 


Sylvia: Is it 15 or 12?


Austin: I think it’s 15– oh, it's 12, because I gave you a discount because Wrench is doing all the upgrades.


Ali: Mm.


Sylvia: You're welcome.


Austin: There's no service fee. There's no overhead. Yeah. So let's see where you're at here, if you're going to do this.


Ali: Yeah. 


Ali (as Froggy): Yeah, tonight we're not just racing for ourselves. We're racing for the city. 


Sylvia: High five.


Ali (as Froggy): We’re racing for the streets. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Wow.


Art: That’s good. Yeah, this is…that's a good…that's gonna be in the trailer. 


Austin: Record this. Yeah, uh huh. [Ali laughs] 


Art: And now like the slow version of the rap song is playing. [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Right. “It's about pride. It's about power.” 


Sylvia: Oh no. [Art and Ali laugh] 


Austin: “We stay hungry. We devour.”


Sylvia: Someone please do an acoustic cover of that, actually.


Austin: It has to exist. [Ali laughs]


Art: Be careful. People make the songs you say on here.


Austin: I’ve seen that happen.


Sylvia: I know! That's why I'm saying it, Art. I want…


Art: Has everyone heard “The Bucho in My Mind”?


Austin: I have. It's fantastic. 


Ali: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.


Art: There's two of them. 


Sylvia: Oh, wow.


Austin: Uh huh.


Art: You got two Bucho covers of “Judas”.


Austin: Incredible.


Ali: Anyway, yeah, I want to upgrade my car.


Austin: That makes sense to me. 


Ali: Yeah. 


Austin: What are you upgrading?


Ali: [thoughtful breath] I should get my Acceleration up, probably. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: And yeah, I…yeah. [laughs] My Weight could probably go– the like mechanics of the race are like, you roll plus your Weight… [Austin sighs, Ali laughs] 


Austin: You…


Ali: Uh huh?


Austin: You can scroll down here and look at this…


Ali: Right, right.


Austin: The phases at the bottom, right? There is the Heli-cam Phase and the Maneuvers Phase. The Heli-cam Phase is where you're just kind of generally trying to move up as far as you can or hold your position. The Maneuvers Phase is where you're trying to like get up one spot or slam into an opponent one step in front of or behind you or to…I don't remember what block actually does. I’ll have to look it up.


Sylvia: It just has them down here, and it seems like it's a sort of like…it's the defensive side for the player to like keep from…


Austin: No, because I think block is a thing you can choose to do.


Sylvia: Oh, you do it against…


Art: Yeah, block is a maneuver.


Austin: You're blocking–


Sylvia: When your opponent overtakes or slams, you use block to negate it, and if you…


Austin: I see.


Sylvia: It has failures against each one listed and then success against each one listed. 


Austin: Right. Okay. Gotcha. Yeah, I see it. You're right.


Ali: Oh, so you like want a better Weight so you can be…


Austin: Tougher.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: You're taking hits better, and you're slamming into enemies better. Slam is Weight. 


Ali: Uh huh. 


Austin: But Acceleration lets you move better forward, you know?


Ali: Yeah. But Weight, for instance, doesn't make your like rolls worse or like– not rolls, I mean like… 


Sylvia: No.


Austin: No, it’s not like Mario Kart where like Weight makes you slower. [Sylvia laughs]


Ali: Yeah. Uh huh, yeah, yeah, yeah.


Sylvia: Oh, can we make this more like Mario Kart, though? Can we get items?


Austin: Ah, that’d be great. Wouldn't that be good, if we had items? 


Art: I think–


Austin: If I’d really thought this through, I should have added items. That's a shame. Oh, well.


Art: So, talk to me about lapping. Where is that in the…


Austin: In the book. So, I noted last time that one way you could succeed here is by lapping your vehicle, and it explains that…here we go, disqualified. I guess the way it says it is just: you can retreat to bring yourself alongside racers ahead of you, but if you retreat until you're lapped—overtaken by the racer currently in first—you are immediately disqualified. So I guess there aren't explicitly– and then a disqualified racer, one lap after they've been disqualified, get lifted away by the mag drones who catch up to you and pull you off the course. So I guess it doesn't explicitly say you can lap.


Art: Get around.


Austin: But I bet you– but we should house rule that you can for something like this, right? And I don't know what that means. Does that mean that you need to…? Here's my quick house rule for it. You can choose to try to lap the last place racer by rolling against them, as if you're trying to overtake them, but they get some sort of bonus, because they are so far ahead of you. Do you know what I mean? Like, maybe you have to spend some sort of currency to do it, like a special maneuver, right? Like, you have to spend a volt or you have to spend a Radical Bonus or you have to do a overclock. Maybe it's that. I think you have to do an overclock from first place in order to try to lap the person in last place, at which point you're then back there but a lap ahead of everybody. And that could get really weird numbers-wise, but let's just roll with it. So, imagine you have a special new ability here in your Maneuvers Phase that is just…or it's a special note on overtake, which is spend, you know, do an overclock in which you sacrifice Integrity points, and if you overclock, you can roll to overtake the person in 20th place, in last place.


Art: And then once you're in the grid again, can you overtake as normal?


Austin: As normal, yeah, mm-hmm.


Art: Okay.


Austin: I think that makes sense, right?


Art: I mean, sure.


Austin: [laughs quietly] That's the silly thing we're doing? Okay.


Art: It's like, the smart thing for me to do would be to add Weight.


Austin: Yes, because you're at negative one right now, which makes you not super good at bumping into this thing to do damage to it.


Art: Right. But if I go up to accelerate four…


Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.


Art: Then…


Austin: Then you could be this– you could do that plan, right? 


Art: Right. 


Austin: And also, if you're in front of it, you can always retreat back to it, if you need to. You can always slam on the brakes to retreat back to being next to it for the Maneuvers Phase. So, let's say you get through. I'm going to note, by the way: I'm going to do this as a four lap race instead of a three lap race, because I want to make sure we have enough time. Like, I don't know how this is going to work is what I'll say outright, right? And so I want to make sure we have a little bit of wiggle room on its Integrity or to get its Integrity down, basically. And I could tell you– I could come up with a bullshit reason for that, which is like, it's one lap per city plus a final lap which is like getting back to the start or something, right? But really what it is, is I don't know how the mechanics are going to work for trying to take this car out, so I want to make sure we have the time to do it, you know?


Art: Right, and I guess I'm wondering…because like, going up to zero Weight isn't very much.


Austin: Correct. You would stop getting a negative on certain defense rolls, and you would get your full, you know, eight Integrity, but you would– it's not going to…eh, maybe it'll make or break. I don't know; you tell me.


Art: But like, would it be– are we as a team trying to smash this thing? and therefore like every little bit of Weight and Integrity helps, or is it like a little bit of smashing and a little bit of lapping, you know? Especially with like, a good hold could keep this car back, [Austin: “Mm”] and I could try to get around, you know? 


Austin: Right.


Art: But I guess then at the end I'd have to beat a hold or beat a…oh, there is no…you can't advance through a hold anyway.


Austin: But if you're one away from it, you can then start slamming.


Art: You can overtake it in maneuvers, yeah.


[0:15:00]


Austin: Or try to overtake it in maneuvers, right, yes. Yes.


Art: But I bet this thing has a lot of Weight. But then I'll have a lot of– if I have a fourth Acceleration, that's a lot too.


Austin: I'll remind you: it has a minus one speed, and you've taken out its weaponry. It used to have weaponry, but Wrench got in there and fucked with it.


Art: Well, then, assuming…eh, I don't want to get too far into the…what are we doing as a group? What's the group plan?


Ali: Yeah, I was…through this conversation, I was thinking that it might be smarter for me…just double checking my math, I think I have enough for one upgrade, and I was thinking of putting it into Weight, because the way that we played it with the last race, it was like, you were the person getting out in front and trying to get the speed and trying to be first. Whereas Wrench was the person who was like playing offense, kind of staying in the back but like hitting cars. Whereas Froggy was like the person who stayed in the middle and like let you pass them and then also like sort of didn't let your like opponents pass Froggy, so you could, you know, advance and be okay. So if you, like…keeping with that dynamic, if I go up Weight, I have okay Acceleration, I'm a little bit better to like knock people out for you. Wrench is super good at that, and then you could be the guy who's just like, zoom.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Art: Right, that would give us…that means the lapping is the plan.


Ali: Yeah, I think so.


Art: All right. I guess it helps either way. If the lapping doesn't work, the extra Weight will also help you slam.


Ali: Right. Yeah, if the lapping seems like it's not going to happen, me and Wrench could be on team beat ‘em up, I guess.


Art: Yeah. It's a shame that we have to make this choice before we know where we're starting in the grid.


Austin: It does.


Ali: That's racing, baby! [laughs quietly] 


Austin: That’s racing, baby. Yeah.


Art: That’s racing, baby. All right. I mean, I feel like I've been pretty consistent here. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Art: So I'm gonna just move that up, move the Acceleration up.


Ali: Okay. My Weight is going from zero to one, and then I– so, it's 13 volts to do that, so I spent 6,000? No, 8,000. And then…okay.


Austin: Yeah, I think that math adds up. I'm pretty sure.


Ali: Yeah, I have 5200 cred left and zero volts.


Austin: And zero volts, right? Yeah. And that's the other thing, is, are you going to end up where you have enough between the three of you to get one more upgrade? And the answer might be yes.


Ali: Oh.


Austin: Let’s see. One, two…


Art: Because 12 volts is–


Austin: No. The answer is no.


Art: No.


Austin: No.


Art: We're not even that close. 


Austin: You're not even that close.


Art: We can't even go like knock over a liquor store or something. [quiet laughter] 


Ali: I mean, we were paid handsomely. 


Austin: It's true.


Ali: To be fair.


Austin: You were. You were paid pretty well, I would say.


Ali: From some guy sharing an office with a florist, I think we made out. [laughs] 


Austin: Uh huh. Hey, he doesn't share an office. He's also– they also have a front as a–


Ali: Right, right, right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 


Austin: They run a florist business, so.


Ali: Oh.


Austin: When they're not doing metaphysical detective work.


Ali: Oh, sure. So, yeah, he’s making ends…


Austin: Uh huh. Well, I don't know if they get paid well. Let's slow down. I don't know how successful the business is.


Ali: [laughs] Well, let's say this takes place in March.


Austin: Uh huh. Okay, sure.


Ali: And he was like, I’m using my Valentine's Day bounty [Austin laughs, “Mm-hmm”] to put everything towards this investigation, because it's now or never.


Austin: Perfect. 


Ali: And it is now or never. 


Austin: And it is.


Ali: We're settling this on the racetrack. 


Austin: Yeah. Okay. [Ali laughs] I love it. All right. So, I think the time has come, unless anyone else has any final sequences they want to do.


Art: No.


Sylvia: I can't think of anything. 


Austin: All right.


Ali: What’s the vibe, though?


Austin: The vibe is that– it's interesting, right? Because, last time, the track was like out over the water, right? Which was kind of a fun, weird thing but very removed from the rest of everything. Here, the vibe– the race starts here near the old abandoned train station, kind of on the western kind of inland coast of Bluff City or of Atlantic City, and then is going to run into this big tunnel. And so you have this like, I think it's early in the morning. This is an all day race. This is like a long– you're going through these tunnels. You're going from one realm of existence to another, even though I don't think anyone thinks of it that way, here in Atlantic City. You’re just going to the sister cities. And I think it's like, you know, the seagulls are out. The sun is coming up over the the skyline and like cutting through some of the smog. On this side of the island, you know, you get the marshlands. You get some of these new, more fancy shops that are a little more…or maybe, at this point, it's been enough time since Tales from the Loop that they’ve failed, and so there's an abandoned shopping plaza only a couple of blocks away that used to have, you know, your Versace store and your, you know, Louis Vuitton bags and all that shit. All empty, all boarded up now. But here, if you just stay in this one block, it looks very busy and fancy as the cars all pull up to the lines. I'll say there's a couple of new cars here. It’s most of the same old people, but, one: both Absolute Pluperfect’s Absolute Class and the Jackpot Supreme are here, so if you thought that Pluperfect was going to be piloting the Jackpot Supreme, you are unfortunately wrong. You don't see who is piloting it or driving it, but there's that. And then, two: in place of– I mean, not in place with both of them, but while Sonny and BB—aka Baby, aka et cetera—are both out of the race because of their injuries in the last race, there is a new driver who is just kind of…he's driving a taxi. He's driving a black car, I think is how we characterized that guy last time. This is Cameron R. Castle, here self sponsored, Castle’s Cars and Coffee. He's a no-nonsense local own-your-own-car driveshare person, who keeps his…he's the classic cyberpunk person of like, I keep a real car. I don't have a hover car. I don't have a car that's on the grid. And he has entered on behalf of his good friend, Sonny “Fastos” Veranda III and, I think, frankly, Ronnie. He's known Ronnie since Ronnie was a little kid, and Ronnie called in a favor to be like, “Hey, you know, Mr. Castle, [Ali laughs] could you go and make sure my friends have a little bit of backup on the track.” So you can count on this guy, Cameron R. Castle, to help you out if you happen to be near him. He's part of the plan. 


Ali: Can I ask you a question?


Austin: Always, yes.


Ali: I’m sorry. I mean, we've…this is a far future Bluff City, but we haven't really like [Austin: “Mm-hmm”] fleshed out the hover cars and that there's, you know, this is supposed to be like a crazy track with big jumps and gravity rips and, you know…


Austin: Yeah, mm-hmm. Right in the name.


Ali: [laughs quietly] So how’s– like, if Mr. Castle is driving a car with wheels…


Austin: Uh huh. He hits a button, [Ali laughs] and the wheels do the thing from Back to the Future.


Ali: Oookay.


Austin: They turn into hover wheels. Right?


Ali: Okay, okay, okay.


Austin: Uh huh.


Ali: I just, yeah, I don't want this guy to drive off of any cliffs.


Austin: No, I gotcha. I gotcha. I understand. I wish I had– I don't have the transcript in front of me to remember how we described his car, but I think it was a– Sylvi, do you remember? 


Sylvia: Oh, gosh. Um…


Austin: I want to say it was like a Lincoln Town Car. That seems like what I would have said.


Ali: Yeah. 


Austin: Do you know what I mean?


Sylvia: Sure. I don't really remember being, if I’m being honest.


Austin: It’s fine. It's good. All good.


Ali: I'm 89% sure you said Lincoln Town Car.


Austin: That sounds like the thing I would have said, you know?


Ali: It's in that genre of car. 


Austin: Yeah, exactly. Which is why I'm now searching for “hover Lincoln Town Car.” It’s not– that didn't happen. No, these all suck. I'm just gonna get a classic. It's just gonna do that instead. Black Lincoln Town Car. Boom. Okay.


Art: Absolute driving their own car is a big impediment to our lapping strategy.


Austin: Mm-hmm! Mm-hmm. [Ali laughs] And you realize that that day, right? You show up to the track and you’re like, “Ah, fuck.” 


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Not good.


Art: Should’ve blown up their car.


Austin: Mm. That would have been a good call. Okay.


Sylvia: Hey, I gave it minus one Acceleration. 


Ali: That's great.


Austin: All right. I think it's time to roll these dice and get your positions, huh?


Ali: Yeah.


Art: Last time you let us like pool our starting positions.


Austin: Is that what I did? Yeah, that's…


Art: Yeah.


Austin: How did– just everybody rolled a D20? Is that what it was? And then you…


Art: We got like three spots, you know?


Austin: Right. Yeah.


Art: And we could assign them on ourselves, yeah. 


Austin: And you could put them where you wanted them. Yeah. I think that makes sense.


Ali: Okay.


Austin: All right, you go ahead and roll your three D20s, then.


Ali: One each, right?


Austin: One each, yeah.


Art: Oh, whoops. 


Austin: Well, that's not…oh, that's a shame, too! [Ali laughs] One each. Art rolled six, one, six. That would be a great…


Art: Yeah. I got hold position, though.


Austin: You did. That would have been…


Ali: Ooh.


Sylvia: I also rolled a six, so, you know.


Austin: Ali got a two. All right, listen.


Ali: Wow.


Austin: Two, five, six ain't so bad.


Art: That's pretty good, yeah.


Austin: All right. I'm now rolling. Here is Absolute. Uh oh. We need a roll off, because Absolute got a two also. [Ali gasps] How do we do these roll offs?


Art: Now, is it lower wins or higher wins?


Austin: I don't remember. How did we do this before?


Art: You rolled all of them before. I don't know what you did. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Oh. What the fuck did I do? All right, well, who's taking the two? Art, you're taking the two? 


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: All right. Let's just do a roll a D20 real quick to see who rolls– let's say higher wins this roll. This is a versus roll.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Here's mine. Here's a seven. You’ve just got to beat a seven. 


Ali: Come on.


Art: Hey!


Austin: Hey, that's a nine. So, that means you are–


Ali: Oh, right. [laughs] 


Art: Why are these different colors?


Austin: I don't know. It's weird, right? 


Art: Yours are–


Austin: Oh, is it our colors? It's our colors in Roll20. 


Art: Oh.


Ali: Oh, yeah.


Austin: Mine are orange like my thing is orange. All right, so that means you're number two. It means Absolute is number three. I guess I should have waited to roll– oh, no, this makes sense. Here is the Jackpot Supreme, which I guess I still need to add. 19!


Art: Oof! [Ali gasps] All right, that's gonna be easy! We're gonna do this on the second lap.


Austin: Oh, I did add the Jackpot Supreme. It's down here, so that's on 19th. Froggy, you're…where were you? Are you on six or five? 


Ali: I'm probably five. 


Austin: And then, Wrench, you're sixth?


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: You're, in fact, already there. Perfect. Here is SC. SC is eight, slides back one. We gotta get Tate on here. Rolling for Tate. Tate is number one! [Ali gasps]


Art: That's a shame.


Austin: Interesting. That's a shame.


Art: Because if that was no one, I could just do it. 


Austin: You could just do it. You could just do it! And then here is Castle. Number three! Wait, but now has to roll off again, against Absolute. 


Art: That’s taken, yeah. [Ali gasps]


Austin: So, here's Castle against Absolute. [multiple people gasp] Oh, huge! And here's Absolute’s response. Castle gets a 20, a nat 20 on that one. Sorry, I fucked that up. There we go. It's wild that the first six spots are taken by main characters. [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: Let’s go. 


Ali: Yes, baby. 


Sylvia: That's just drama.


Austin: That's just drama. That's just drama. All right, so, in first place, driving the Tiger Bite Yellow– and I'm going to tell you this, Trip, as you get to the line: Tiger Bite Yellow does not look like it's in good shape. Neither the Tiger Bite Yellow nor the Tiger Bite Green look like they have been repaired all the way. I don't know how–


Art: Oh, great! So, someone just go up and smash the shit out of that one. [Ali laughs]


Austin: I'm just saying, that's the situation. So–


Art: I am also just saying. [Austin laughs] So, our ideal situation here is that…uh, who's the– what's yellow Lays again? It's like Tater? 


Austin: Tate. It’s just Tate. 


Art: Tate.


Austin: No Tater. 


Sylvia: It’s tater salad. It’s, uh…


Austin: That’s it.


Art: Tater chips. That's why it’s Lays.


Austin: That's why it's Lays, yeah, tater chips.


Art: The best scenario is that Tate fails the hold roll, right? 


Austin: Yes.


Art: Or how does that work with NPCs? Rivals roll, right? Or nah?


Austin: Rivals roll, and Tate is a Rival.


Art: All right, so failing the hold would be the best, because then they automatically fall back. 


Austin: Yes. Yes. 


Art: And I can immediately try to– oh, it's not even– overtaking a non-Rival is…they don't get to roll. Right?


Austin: What do you mean?


Art: That I can overtake a Rival without a…they don't have a Weight to roll against. There's no 20, you know?


Austin: There's no 20. Correct. Yes. If you can get to first, you just–


Art: So I would just need to overclock. 


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. I think you still have to roll an advance.


Art: Right, yeah, of course. 


Austin: Right? But…


Art: But an advance plus an overclock with a plus four is not hard.


Austin: You're going to be fine. 


Art: The hard thing is going to be overtaking this tank, you know?


Austin: Is Tate. Yeah, yeah, totally.


Art: No, the…the nacho supreme.


Austin: Please, Art. It’s not the nacho supreme. It’s the Jackpot Supreme.


Art: I've heard different reports.


Austin: Mm…


Art: Is it a nacho supreme? Is it a pizza supreme? Is it a Jackpot Supreme?


Austin: Oh boy.


Art: Who could say?


Austin: Here, then, is our…what do you– our starting lineup. That's not right. Starting lineup is for like a sports team. Is it called starting lineup?


Art: [singing instrumentals of “Get Ready for This” by 2 Unlimited]


Austin: Uh huh. Great. [Ali laughs] We already– 


Art: This is the grid, the starting grid.


Austin: The starting grid. Thank you. In first place is Tate in the Tiger Bite Yellow. In second place is Trip Uncertainty in the Liminal Space. In third place, starting third, is Cameron R. Castle in the Castle’s Cars and Coffee…Cab. [laughs quietly] I didn't write a name for it, so I'm just gonna write the word “Cab” at the end. Then is Absolute Pluperfect in the Absolute Class, then Froggy driving the Sharpshooter, then Wrench in the Cherry Bomb. Then it gets– then we get Callista Lee in the Keen X1, who you might recall. Callista was the one you almost knocked off the– or you did knock off the course, Wrench. Actually, so, Callista is probably not here either. I’m gonna say this is Callista’s sister. Uh, what's a good name for someone named Callista? For someone named Callista’s sister.


[0:30:14]


Art: A good name for someone named Callista is Callista. 


Austin: Is Callista. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Art: That’s how that goes.


Austin: Uh huh. How about, uh…


Sylvia: Calsista. [Ali snorts quietly]


Austin: I’m so mad.


Sylvia: Sorry. 


Austin: It's probably another Greek name. Let's see some sick Greek names really quick. 


Ali: Carmela? 


Austin: Okay, let's go with Carmela. Carmela is here. Carmela Lee is here.


Ali: Sorry. [laughs] 


Austin: Driving the same car, which has been repaired. Then is SC in the Tiger Bite Green, and then it’s a bunch of people we don't have to worry about. And then, in the 19th place, it is mystery driver in the Jackpot Supreme. 


Sylvia: Her being called Carmela is…I’m like trying so hard to do a Captain Falcon Edie Falco thing. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Uh huh. Yeah, okay. Yeah, fair.


Ali: Who's in the Tiger Bite Green, again? Sorry, I was writing all these down.


Austin: SC.


Ali: SC, okay. 


Austin: Yeah, SC. 


Art: For sour cream?


Austin: For sour cream. 


Ali: Mm, mm-hmm. 


Austin: It's one of the Tigers. 


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: SC is like the very suave one, man of little words, man of few words, nice suit on.


Sylvia: You know there's a corner of Twitter going crazy about the “Pluperfect took a bath in sour cream” thing and misunderstanding what that means. [Ali gasps]


Austin: Oh my God. I’m so– yeah, uh huh. You mean Twitter in the game world.


Sylvia: Yeah, in the game, in the game.


Austin: Yeah, you huh. You're totally right. 


Sylvia: Twitter exists in our world, because it is a dystopia. [laughter] 


Austin: It is a dystopia. You're right. Uh huh. Christ. I think, you know, Tate comes over and shakes your hand, Trip, you know, with his very big paw, and wishes you luck.


Art (as Trip): Same to you. Great car you got there.


Austin (as SC): You too. And listen: no dirty stuff. Uh huh?


Art (as Trip): Absolutely not.


Austin (as SC): All right. Let's keep it…everything on the track, best man wins. 


Art (as Trip): Yeah. 


Austin: Pluperfect, on the other hand, glowers at you from inside of their car.


Art (as Trip): That's bold. I hear they're a cheater.


Austin (as SC): I've heard that. I've heard that. 


Austin: The official race track or the official race organization says that they're going to do an investigation into this, but since this race is not part of any sort of league—there's no points; this is a fun charity event—they're allowing Pluperfect to continue racing, in this case.


Art (as Trip): Yeah, you’d have to be a real scumbag to cheat in a race like this or try anything underhanded.


Austin: Mm-hmm. [quiet laughter] 


Art (as Trip): I think we can all agree, as a racing community. 


Austin (as SC): That's right. 


Art (as Trip): I filmed a PSA about this. I don't think it's going to make it on air in time, but… 


Austin: [laughs] All right.


Art (as Trip): And it's really not relevant after, so I guess we wasted a lot of camera people's time.


Austin: [laughs] God.


Sylvia (as Wrench): It's airing during the broadcast.


Austin: Yes, it’s– yeah.


Art (as Trip): Oh, is that true? Did you hear that?


Sylvia (as Wrench): [awkwardly] Yeah, I heard– I just wanted to make you feel better. I'm sorry. It's not actually happening.


Art (as Trip): I mean, maybe for the DVD.


Sylvia (as Wrench): Yeah, those are still a thing.


Art: I'm surprised that DVDs are still a thing now, so don't sleep on DVDs. 


Sylvia: With every session, though, it just seems like Trip is getting older and older. [Ali, Austin, and Sylvia laugh]


Austin: Listen, if this cab driver can be here…though I did insinuate that maybe this cabdriver also had some shit going on, so who could say? All right. 


Sylvia: A vampire should– I'm just saying. Anyway.


Austin: Mm.


Art: That's the end of this, is it turns out we're all vampires. It's the big reveal.


Austin: Oh, that’s the future. Yeah, uh huh. 


Sylvia: God bless.


Art: The future… [indistinct]


Austin: [reading] Every on-track encounter with a fellow RIP racer is a deadly battle of nerve and lightning reflexes. With 20 competitors on the course, there's no time to describe every overtake and desperate sideswipe as you jostle your way through the pack. That's why there are two phases: Heli-cam, Maneuvers. Let's get into the first of these Heli-cam Phases. With the race underway, the GM will ask players what their goal is for this lap, starting with the player in the highest pack and then descending in order. So I guess I should just start as Tate, right? because Rivals get turns?


Art: Yeah.


Austin: That’s what we decided. We had Rivals having turns last time, right?


Art: I think that's right. 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: And that is right, we think?


Art: That's why they're Rivals.


Austin: That's why they're Rivals.


Ali: Yeah. 


Austin: Uh…yes, including GM-controlled Rivals.


Art: Including GM-controlled Rivals.


Austin: Yeah, there it is. All right. So, I think you have it exactly right, Art. We're going to see, here, Tate going to try to hold in this Heli-cam Phase, preventing anyone from getting past him unless he allows it. And that is…let's see, D6 plus Weight, and then there is pushback. I'm gonna reread the actual thing in the book, just so that we fully have it. All right. To hold, roll a D6 plus your Weight modifier. Tate's Weight is zero, so– I believe I have that down right. Wait, wait, wait. No, Tate's Weight is a two, so.


Art: Uh oh.


Austin: Roll D6 plus two. Hey! That's a one. 


Art: All right, all right! And then the pushback.


Austin: And then the pushback is just a flat D6, right?


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: Here's the pushback. 


Art: Aw! [Ali laughs]


Austin: Only a two. All right. “If the result of the pushback roll is equal to or lower than the result, you successfully hold. The furious pack behind you is no match to your sublime domination of the course, and no competitors can penetrate your defenses. On a successful hold, no racers except teammates can get past you on this lap. Even teammates may only slip past at your discretion.” All right, so that is– there you go. There's that one. Art, or rather Trip. 


Art: All right, so the best I can do is hold. 


Austin: I’m guessing you're also going to hold, also, right? 


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah. Oh, everyone should come in with one more Radical Bonus, because it's a new thing. 


Ali: Mm.


Austin: Everyone should start with one at least.


Sylvia: Oh, okay.


Austin: Go ahead. What were you gonna say, Art? You’re going to hold, right?


Art: I'm going to hold. It says I can only like teammates by. What does that mean right now?


Austin: What do you mean?


Ali: You could let Castle pass you if you wanted to, but…


Austin: Yeah.


Art: Is Castle a teammate in this…?


Austin: Yeah, let's say yes, in this scenario. And that would be, you know, your choice, I think. So, what did you roll here? You rolled a three, minus one is a two. Ooh, this is gonna be rough.


Art: It's gonna be rough.


Austin: So now, pushback. I got it. Oh, that pushback’s not good, Art.


Art: All right. So, they may get past.


Austin: Uh huh. Is that right? That's how that goes?


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Failing to hold…


Art: So now I need Castle to hold successfully.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: You sure do. A thing that's happening here, by the way…I'm just going to reiterate this. The rules say we're not supposed to narrate what's happening while we go through this, because you end up with conflicting stuff. And I get that rule, but also I feel a little bit like it makes it more confusing, because all we end up doing is talking about numbers for seven minutes and then we summarize. So I think it's fair instead, in this case– and if we run into a problem, we run into a problem with this. But at this point, I think that it's simply the case that, yeah, you end up not being able to hold here and are going to slide back, and I think it's fair to just say that we see that happen, right? All right, failing to hold doesn't automatically move you back. I thought you said–


Art: No, not unless you're in first.


Austin: No. Right, that’s where. That's that's where it happens. Gotcha.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: All right. So, then…I actually think Castle might hold. I think Castle’s more confident in you advancing in your–


Art: Foolish, to be honest, but, uh…


Austin: Eh. I mean, I think the numbers just support that, if I'm looking at them right.


Art: No, I think that's true, yeah.


Austin: You know what I mean? Castle’s not…


Art: I just had one bad roll in a row.


Austin: Exactly. Exactly. 


Art: And so basing the world on that.


Austin: Your Acceleration is four, right?


Art: Yeah, I'm gonna have a fairly good chance at an overtake.


Austin: Yeah. His is two, so that's just not what you do. So, he's gonna roll D6 plus two. He's two/two and gets a seven to hold, and that means he’s gonna get it, because the overtake is just…


Art: Yeah, if Cam rolls…yeah. 


Austin: The overtake is a one, so he's gonna hold, making Absolute needing to hold, so there's just jostling all over the place here.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: So now here's Absolute trying to hold. Absolute has a minus one. Only a three, so does not succeed, so that's no good for Absolute. Froggy, it's your turn.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: You could pass Absolute here.


Ali: I'm thinking that's the…yeah. I think creating as much distance between Absolute and Trip is like our game here. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: And I think if Absolute is between me and Wrench, we can do like a little ping pong [Austin: “Yeah”] holding slamming situation, so. [laughs] 


Austin: Ooh, sure.


Sylvia: Oh, yeah.


Art: We’ll fail our objective, but what if we kill Absolute by… [Sylvia and Ali laugh]


Austin: Really quick, though, there is another thing you could do, which is…and maybe this is more of a Wrench thing, is you could retreat all the way back to the Jackpot and immediately start slamming it. 


Ali: Mm.


Sylvia: Hmm. 


Austin: But there is something nice about keeping Absolute out of the picture up front too.


Art: Yeah, imagine Absolute not getting a podium finish on this race. [Austin chuckles]


Ali: Yeah, mm. Okay, sure. I think this is– I feel like this is lap one though, and like…


Austin: It is lap one. You're right.


Ali: We gotta create the status quo, and the status quo is Absolute is gonna lose, and like…


Austin: Right.


Ali: Yeah. Blocked twice, advanced. Yeah.


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: Okay. So that's going to be D6 plus Acceleration?


Austin: Plus accelerate to overtake. That's right.


Ali: Okay.


Austin: Or to advance, not to overtake. To advance, yeah. 


Ali: Right, yeah, okay.


Austin: Ooh!


Ali: That’s an eight.


Art: Good work!


Austin: And then the pushback is only a three, so you could move up to be right behind Art, right? Because…or, no, you could go–


Art: Castle allows it.


Austin: Yeah, you could be either in front of Castle or behind Castle. Castle will let you pass if you want, but alternatively, you could…yeah, where do you want to be?


Art: You could also go in front– oh wait, no, nevermind. I was like, you could go in front of me, and then you could slam Tate. [Austin laughs quietly]


Ali: Oh, sure.


Austin: You could do that.


Art: If our goal is to eliminate Tate, [laughs quietly] but I guess that doesn't make a ton of sense, because I'm likely to just pass Tate.


Austin: Can you pass Tate after a hold? 


Art: In the Maneuvers Phase, I can.


Austin: It does say that?


Art: Yeah, it's a different phase. 


Austin: Okay. Because it says, “No racers except teammates can get past you this lap.”


Art: But isn't the Maneuvers Phase– it’s certainly not how we played it last, because I would have won the last race if that was true.


Austin: Hmm. Because you succeeded at a hold?


Art: Because I succeeded at a hold.


Austin: You don’t remember that. We did that four and a half months ago. [Ali laughs]


Art: It's 100% true. I remember like it was yesterday. It's the only thing I remember.


Austin: Hmm. I think you're probably right, and we should– I think it's more interesting to let maneuvers allow for an overtake.


Art: But you're right. It does say lap.


Austin: Yeah.


Art: But it's not– then what's the point…?


Austin: Of a Maneuvers Phase.


Art: Of a Maneuvers Phase.


Austin: Because then you have nothing to do in the Maneuvers Phase.


Art: Right.


Austin: Yeah, I think that that makes sense.


Art: Because everyone is just going to…because all you do at the top is hold.


Austin: Right, exactly. Yes. Yes. Here is my reason, Art, for saying you're right. They have an example piece of text here, which is: “You have the momentum to take this all the way to first, but as you come to the racer in third, you find that they're matching your every move, focused entirely on holding the position they've earned. You can't get any further. Looks like you'll have to settle this in the Maneuvers Phase.” That, to me, signals that maneuvers allow you to pass in…or that overtake allows you to pass in the Maneuvers Phase, so you're good. Anyway, okay. So yeah, I guess those are your options, Froggy, right? It's like overtake and then– overtake all the way up to the top and potentially hit Tate off, because you got more than enough speed between you and the pushback score to be able to get up there, or just get in front of Absolute, or work as another barrier between Absolute and Castle, or like get in front of Castle, right? What are you feeling? What do you think Froggy would do here?


Ali: It's tough. It feels like it's all appealing. Who of us, though…


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: Of me and Castle, who has the better Weight?


Austin: What's yours? That’s a good question.


Ali: Mine is…one. 


Austin: Uh, Castle. Castle has a two Weight, so Castle is better at holding Absolute back, but Castle is probably just going to hold from this position indefinitely, you know?


Ali: Right, yeah, but–


Austin: Or I guess maybe not.


Art: If you go above Castle, Castle could slam.


Ali: No, no, no, but if Castle is already holding, and Absolute is behind, [Austin: “Yeah”] and Castle is good at holding, right?


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: So yeah, maybe it’s…


Austin: Although, maybe it's safe for you to get up there.


Ali: I can get up there, do the slam, let Trip pass me, retreat again, and then we can have the little like PvP moment with Absolute.


Austin: Right, next time.


Ali: Yeah.


Art: But you don't need to do the slam. I can just pass.


Austin: Yeah, but that's a lot– okay, but are you sure? What if you fail the pass?


Ali: Mm-hmm. What if you don’t want the–


Art: If I fail plus four versus a plus two?


Ali: It’s happened.


Austin: It's possible.


Art: It's possible, but it's…


Austin: It’s dice. [Ali laughs]


Art: But I mean, the slam is gonna be a plus one versus a plus two. 


Austin: But do you not think having two…I mean, I shouldn't coach you. I'm not your coach. You don't have a coach. We never introduced a coach. 


Art: It’s that if–


Austin: My thinking on this is: you don't want a backup plan? [Ali laughs quietly]


Art: If Froggy gets in front of me [Austin: “I see”] and fails at the slam, I can't get into first.


Austin: Right, yeah. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. That makes sense.


Ali: Okay, yeah, then no. Okay, yeah. Yeah. I think you have to switch me and Absolute, by the way.


Austin: I just wasn't sure if that's where you were going or not yet. 


Ali: Yeah, yeah. 


Austin: All right, boom. Okay, there you go. Absolute falls back to sixth place, as you power past. All right. SC is going to advance.


Art: Wait, you skipped, uh…


Sylvia: Hey.


Art: You skipped Wrench. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Oh, I'm looking– I was looking vertically. I wasn't looking at– this chart is very weird. [Sylvia laughs] Sorry. All right. Wrench, what are you doing?


Sylvia: I'm probably just gonna hold, if I'm being honest, right now.


Austin: Okay.


Sylvia: I like the sort of sandwiching in Pluperfect plan, so.


Austin: That's fair. All right, give me your roll.


Sylvia: Oh, Pluperfect plan. Say that five times fast. [Ali laughs] So, this is D6 plus Weight.


Austin: D6 plus Weight. Yep. 


[0:45:00]


Sylvia: I rolled a one, so…


Austin: Oof. That's a three.


Sylvia: Yep.


Austin: Pushback’s only a two. You hold. 


Sylvia: Let's go. I'm tough.


Austin: Somehow. SC is going to try to overtake or try to advance, which SC has…SC is not very fast. SC is kind of slow, actually. That's a two. SC cannot advance. And then, finally, I think we're going to have the Jackpot Supreme also try to advance, but again, because of the hacking you did or the sabotage you did, also not good. Rolls a four, though. Only rolls a one on pushback, so yes, the Jackpot Supreme is going to move up two spots to 17th place. [Ali gasps] Slowly gaining.


Art: That's good, though. The worst thing that the Jackpot Supreme could have realized is that by dropping back to 20 they would have really fucked me. [laughs quietly] 


Austin: It could fuck you over, yeah. 


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, that's true. It wants to be in the middle of the pack, you know? I think that that's how it's thinking. Very simple thinking inside of whatever is piloting that machine. All right, it’s the overtake– I guess we should now summarize this Heli-cam Phase. What happened here? What was the exciting thing? Basically, a lot of attempting to push past each other, but the only one who got to do much of that at all was Froggy. Froggy, how did you find your way around Absolute Pluperfect?


Ali: Yeah. Um, do we have– I guess it depends on like the– because like, so… [laughs] From the like osmosis that I've picked up from racing and stuff, sometimes like a significant thing about different tracks is like, oh, this track is different, because it's like so much wider than other tracks are.


Austin: Sure.


Ali: So you'll see a lot of racers being more aggressive, because they feel like they have more room to move or whatever. 


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: Or sometimes it'll be like, this one is on an angle, and because of that it's weird. Anyway. [laughs quietly] So, I think that maybe in this portion of the race, because it's supposed to be going through like the three cities or whatever, this is like…


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: You said it was like a big– we were starting at like a big street avenue, right?


Austin: Yeah, yeah.


Ali: How many lanes do you think that would be?


Austin: I think this is probably what we would think of as four lanes, right? 


Ali: Okay, sure.


Austin: Maybe there's a six lane portion, where like you're merging. You know, I bet it’s six lanes when you're deciding, do you want to go down what I know is the Atlantic City Expressway [Ali laughs quietly] or then merge onto the Tri-City Tunnel, right? So maybe that's the point at which you're like, “All right, it's go time.”


Ali: Mm-hmm. Yeah. And it's like kind of using the curve of like, moving towards the tunnel [Austin: “Mm-hmm”] to like do a fake out of like, “Oh, I'm gonna pass you from the left,” and then as I'm moving to the right, they're like, “Oh, I'm gonna move to the right too,” but then I move to the left and get it. 


Austin: Boom. Yeah, perfect. 


Ali: Vroom? 


Austin: Vroom. Exactly. [Ali laughs] Otherwise, I think it's all just– unless, Sylvi or Art, you have other ways to characterize your maneuvers this turn, it feels like pretty straightforward.


Art: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Poking, prodding, trying to get past and just not happening.


Sylvia: I don't know if there's much to add. 


Austin: Okay, then let's go into maneuvers. God, what would Tate be doing here? We start from the top again, right? 


Art: Uh huh.


Austin: Of this list, I believe.


Art: I think so.


Austin: All right, I think: obviously, Tate doesn't want you to pass. Tate is too damaged to try to slam against you. Tate does not have the overclock necessary or the Integrity necessary to try to overclock and lap. I mean, really has just enough, really could try it, but would be in a really weak position if he did. [laughs] So I think is going to try to block you, Trip. 


Art: Okay.


Austin: Are you overtaking or are you slamming?


Art: I am, of course, overtaking.


Austin: All right, so then this ends up being a Weight versus Acceleration thing, right? 


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: All right. Tate has two Weight, so D6 plus two on the block. Do you want to roll your Acceleration first? Let's see your Acceleration first. That feels–


Art: All right. I mean, it sounds like if they’re blocking, they should be rolling first, but, uh…


Austin: Okay. Well, I can do it first. I'm just thinking about the way the camera shows it. I guess the way the camera shows it is they're blocking real well, at a seven. They are dipping all around. They are doing their best to try to like keep you boxed out. You know, maybe your bumper gets near them once. But you rolled–


Art: But I’m faster.


Austin: You're faster, at a nine. What happens? You've overtaken them. You succeeded, one plus one position.


Art: Yeah. I think it looks like being too careful about being hurt, right? 


Austin: Yeah, mm-hmm.


Art: The like, going for that block and sort of having the line, and then being like, “Well, wait. Force equals mass times what again?” [Austin laughs quietly] and sort of like pulling out a little bit and…


Austin: Mm-hmm. And boom.


Art: And the Liminal Space moves into first. 


Austin: There you go. And you slide up. The Liminal Space is in first. And at this point, I think that the Castle's Cars and Coffee Cab is also going to try to pass. Why wouldn't he do that, right? So again, that's going to be D6 plus two. It’s going to be against D6 plus two here as the overtake. That's a seven. Here's the block. Only a three!


Ali: Wow.


Austin: And Tate is just dropping back. Cameron R. Castle.


Art: You can’t be scared in the cockpit. 


Austin: Okay, but what happens when your cockpit is sparking at you? [Ali laughs] Because you can in that scenario.


Art: That’s not what I learned from a certain man named Lando Calrissian. 


Austin: Oh, okay. Sure, yeah. 


Ali: Mm.


Austin: So I think here, again, Tate completely kind of surprised by your ability to pass him, Trip, is like, again playing too defensive or is playing too cautiously, is like, “I can't let that happen again,” and gets juked real bad. Cameron R. Castle recognizes the fear, smells the blood in the water, and then just pushes on it. Do you know what I mean? Recognizes the fear and is like: I'm gonna drive real close. I'm gonna take an inside cut so close that it's like, if…it's basically a game of chicken.


Art: Sure.


Austin: It's like, “Tate, you're gonna either open up and let me through, or we're gonna crash,” and sees that Tate is shook right now and is right. Tate opens up the space and allows Cameron to pass instead of risking a crash here. Froggy, you're up. 


Ali: Wow. Okay.


Austin: You now have a real interesting choice. You could try to pass Tate. You could try to slam Absolute or, again, block Absolute who will probably be trying to accelerate past you.


Ali: Yeah. I think keeping Absolute back is more important than keeping Tate back, [Austin: “Mm”] because I feel like Trip has the buffer right now of Castle, and…


Austin: Mm-hmm. Yeah, that’s…


Art: Right, we have two attempts to successfully hold.


Ali: Uh huh.


Austin: Right, yeah. True.


Ali: And Tate has proven, at least at this point, they are not as an aggressive driver. 


Austin: Yeah. Mm-hmm. 


Ali: So I think we're– I think the spacing of the team is great. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: I think the priority of the opponents is great, so I will be–


Austin: So you think you're just gonna commit to stopping Absolute from passing?


Ali: Yeah. Yeah, yeah.


Austin: Not slamming Absolute.


Art: Well, again, if you slam Absolute, you could slam Absolute twice. 


Austin: Wait, how's that? 


Ali: Oh, because–


Art: If you slam Absolute, then when Absolute tries to overtake and fails, [Austin: “Mm”] you can get a free slam. 


Ali: Sure. 


Austin: Mm.


Art: So don't underrate the double slam. [Ali and Austin laugh quietly] Of course, if you fail a slam, you get minus two Integrity, but…


Ali: Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Austin: But we know that you have a Weight bonus over– you have a two point bonus over Absolute in this car. This car is only a minus one Weight. You have a one Weight. That's better, isn't it? Up to you what you want to do.


Ali: I feel like, narratively, since what we know Absolute is going to do is overtake, I want to just do the block [Austin: “Okay”] and then get the free– like, take the free slam as like a–


Austin: From that. 


Ali: Yeah. I, a little bit, want to be the bigger man here. [laughs] 


Austin: Yeah, I got you. Yeah, make it happen, and then…yeah, I got you. All right. Well, then, let’s do that overtake. 


Ali: Yeah. Like, if they're gonna come for me, I'm gonna punch, you know what I mean? But like, I don't want to be the person who's like…


Austin: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. The thing worth saying is: they might just overtake you. They might win that overtake.


Ali: Sure. Okay, sure.


Austin: Okay. I'm just, yeah, it’s fine. All right. 


Ali: [laughs] Well, then I have something to do next time, which is advance. You know what I mean? 


Austin: That’s true. Yeah. Fair. All right, well, here comes that overtake attempt. 


Ali: Ah! [laughs] 


Austin: They roll pretty bad. They roll a two, plus three is a five.


Ali: Okay.


Austin: You're gonna roll your Weight to counter it.


Ali: So, I'm just– I'm rolling…


Austin: D6 plus one, I think, right? You moved it up. Ooh! Oof.


Ali: No! [laughs sadly]


Austin: Unfortunately. 


Sylvia: Oh my God.


Austin: Unfortunately, you roll a three, plus one is a four, [Ali groans] which means you slide past here, and Absolute advances on you. I think…what happens here, Ali? I feel like…you got Absolute by that little left/right juke. 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: I think Absolute fires back with a classic left/right/left juke.


Ali: Yeah. Yeah.


Austin: And is like, “Ah, I also know how cars can fake directions, [Ali laughs quietly] except I'll do it one more than you,” and slips right past you. All right. Wrench.


Sylvia: Yeah. I feel like the only thing I can do–


Austin: Stay in place? 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, go ahead.


Sylvia: Because like, if I overtake, I’m overtaking Froggy, which isn't really according to the plan we were thinking of at the time.


Austin: No, yeah.


Sylvia: And I'm not going to slam Froggy either.


Austin: No.


Sylvia: So.


Art: You can drop a position before maneuvering, so you could drop a position and slam SC. 


Sylvia: But why?


Austin: Money.


Art: You get money.


Austin: Money.


Sylvia: But why? [laughs quietly] 


Austin: Fair enough.


Sylvia: I just, I don't know.


Austin: Yeah, that makes sense. We're not doing an ongoing campaign, right, where that money could actually come in handy.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: You know you're here to get this win in a different way, so.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: Also like specifically playing a character that was kinda like messed up over doing that last time, so.


Austin: Yes, 100%. Especially for no reason.


Sylvia: Would that be a block here or would this just be a pass?


Austin: I think this is just nothing.


Sylvia: Okay, cool.


Austin: Because the person behind you is not a named– or is a named character but is not a Rival, so it's not that–


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: You know, it’s not super important, basically. 


Sylvia: Okay, cool. 


Austin: All right. And then SC is going to move up one place. Boom. No need to make him roll for it, because it's a regular character, regular racer. And then likewise with the Jackpot Supreme, slides easily– does not even slide. I think, actually, let's just, you know, knocks whoever that is off the fucking road. Boom. We're going to add a big X here, [Ali gasps] as whoever was in 17th place gets slammed into the side of the Tunnel Project wall and just goes up in flames.


Art: Wow, I’d be careful with those tunnel walls.


Austin: Yeah, that seems bad, right? 


Art: Yeah, who knows what's on the other side of a tunnel wall?


Austin: [laughs quietly] For a brief moment, you actually, at the end of this lap, pass from inside of the tunnel into like a bridge area, and you're just like surrounded on all sides by the sea, in a way that doesn't make any particular sense, because that's not where…that's not where you should– you shouldn't be– there is no ocean between the cities. That's not how it– but then you start thinking, like, “I don't actually know how these three cities exist on the map. They’re all kind of in the same place on the map? So it doesn't really…but, you know, oh, the tunnel gets you there. Don't worry about it. Oh, yeah, right. You can see the ocean from the tunnel sometimes. That makes perfect sense.” And then you pop out, and you are in Blough City. The second lap is in the Blough City loop around. You're kind of doing, in my mind, almost like a cloverleaf, sort of. Do you know what I mean? Where you're like…I haven't drawn this shape yet, but I'll try it. Let's see. You're kind of going like up, and then you're going to loop around, and then come back down and through, and then loop around, and come back down and through, and then boom. You're doing that shape that I just did.


Ali: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, yeah. 


Austin: You see what I mean? So you've gone…kinda like a three leaf clover, you know? A, um…what is that called? Why have I blanked on that? A shamrock, right? Sort of a shamrock shape. Less heart-shaped than a shamrock, I guess, on the leaves, but you get the gist. And you've now come out of the tunnel on the going into Blough City part, and boy, Blough City. Like, y'all are in a dystopia, but this is the first time we've seen Blough City in quite some time, and it's just dire. Blough City used to at least be very populated, and now the streets are dead. The buildings have all their lights off. There are buildings that have fallen into disrepair. You know, the Blough City management was not good people, but they took a lot of pride in buildings being identical and upkept to the same spot, right? That's not to say there were not “bad parts of town” that were not given the infrastructural support they needed, but even that was done at an even keel around that entire neighborhood, right? But now, like, you look into like downtown Blough, the kind of financial district or whatever, and like, some of the buildings are crumbling, and that just never would have happened in what used to be Blough City. But it's a fun backdrop for your hover cars to race past, as you loop around inside of the city central loop and begin to head back towards the tunnel. We are now in lap two, and I guess we are starting with you, Trip. Is that right? I guess so. 


Art: Yes.


Austin: Right, yeah, because you did manage to push ahead.


Art: And it's hold, because you said it's an overtake to get to the back.


Austin: It’s an overtake to get to the back. Yeah, I think that that's the only thing that makes sense, right?


Ali: Oh, sure, sure, sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Austin: So, you hold. I guess you should roll that hold, because it'll prevent anybody else from trying to…


Art: Right. We sort of get two attempts at a hold.


Austin: You get two attempts at hold here. Yeah. 


Art: That's not bad.


Austin: That's not bad. That's a five, minus one is a four. Wait, no, no, no. Art, you’re in first place.


[1:00:00]


Art: Right. So I still have to roll hold. 


Austin: Can you not hold with Acceleration in first place?


Sylvia: Oh, I think you can.


Art: Oh, yeah!


Austin: I'm pretty sure. Yeah.


Art: Well, then that's a nine. 


Austin: Yeah, let's do that, and then…


Sylvia: Jesus.


Austin: Yeah. Well, here's the pushback. It's a three. Obviously, you're gonna succeed on that one. 


Art: All right.


Austin: And then…


Art: That works narratively too. That's me getting up to the overtake for 20. Yeah.


Austin: Exactly.


Ali: Mm-hmm. Oh.


Austin: You're just fucking going for it. With a nine? That's incredible. Cameron is going to also roll to hold, and that is a six. The pushback is also a six. What happens on a– 


Art: What’s a tie? 


Austin: Is a tie still a success? If the pushback is equal or lower, you successfully hold, so yes. Boom.


Art: Great. 


Austin: Held. Tate is going to hold.


Art: Tate’s not gonna try to win this race?


Austin: Not– how– both of you just held.


Art: Oh, right. There's no…that’s right.


Austin: So he can't push, at this point, so he's going to try to hold. Yikes. Oh, Tate. 


Art: Oh, Tate.


Austin: Tate rolled a one plus two. Nope. Tate immediately is going to fall back. [laughs] 


Art: No, it's only–


Austin: Right? Oh, oh, oh, if somebody–


Art: You only fall back if you're in first, yeah.


Austin: You're right. Okay. Yeah, yeah. So, Tate is open to being…


Art: Advanced on.


Austin: Advanced on, yes, which is going to happen right now, as Absolute Pluperfect rolls a seven, which is going to beat Tate's or going to beat the pushback.


Art: And they can easily sacrifice positions to make up the pushback, because they all can move up one. 


Austin: Uh huh. Exactly, so it's easy that…slides right past, or again, I want to say actually bullies their way past Tate. Tate is–


Art: Oh, because Absolute saw Tate get bullied? 


Austin: Saw, yep, and is like, “Ah, yeah, I know exactly how to do this.” Even kind of like dips the corner of their car even closer to threaten the knockout, and Tate completely, like…not quite slams on the brakes, but does like tap them. Froggy, you see this, and it's like embarrassing. It's a little bit like, oh, you never want to see it. This is a classic. This is the sort of maneuver you saw, you know, veteran street racers doing to like tease young nervous street racers as a kid, you know what I mean?


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: It's basically like the opposite of a brake check, you know? Like a kind of acceleration check, and Tate just kind of fell for it, unfortunately. Anyway, you're up, Froggy. Do you want to try to push past Tate, or do you…? What do you want to do?


Ali: Yeah, I'm wondering whether it would be better to retreat to give Wrench a little bit more like maneuver opportunities in this next…in your next move?


Austin: What is your game plan for the remaining three laps, all said? Is I guess maybe a thing to kind of sync up on. It feels like everyone is all in on the “Trip can try to pass this thing” strategy.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: At this point, it just makes sense, right? 


Austin: I mean, you could both get close enough to it this turn to start slamming it. You could always just retreat back to start slamming the hell out of it. 


Sylvia: Well, also, wait, if we…


Art: Which is helpful because of how overclock works and how I'm gonna need to probably use a bunch of overclock to get past it.


Sylvia: If we go in front of it too, could we also slow it down so it's easier to…yeah, easier to pass for Trip?


Austin: Um, no.


Sylvia: Because if it– no? Okay.


Austin: I don't think…


Ali: Well, we could hold.


Art: If we retreat and hold.


Austin: Right, but you're holding it now, in a sense. I guess so, yeah, if you retreated and held for 15.


Ali: Yeah. It advanced like three spots, because it was all NPC drivers in front of it. 


Austin: It did. It did.


Ali: So like, if we get it player character in front of it, it would be like…


Austin: Yep.


Ali: Yeah.


Sylvia: I'm down to do that.


Ali: And then I'll stay up front and like make sure the potato chip guys…


Sylvia: Yeah, be kind of a buffer.


Ali: Uh huh.


Austin: All right. So then, you want to roll hold, still, then, Froggy?


Ali: I think so, yeah.


Austin: Yeah, that makes sense.


Art: Or you could advance. You could pass Tate.


Austin: Oh, you could pass Tate. Right. You could pass Tate.


Ali: I think what I'm gonna do is hold and then let Wrench retreat and then not let Sour Cream pass me because I've held. 


Austin: Yep. Okay. 


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Let's do it.


Ali: Does that makes sense? Yeah. 
________________


Austin: Totally. Give me your roll. 


Ali: One D6 plus one? Jesus. 


Austin: That’s true.


Ali: It’s a three. [laughs sadly]


Austin: Yeah, it's a three. That's not…you don’t love to see that.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: But a three beats or two.


Ali: There we go.


Sylvia: That’s so…fuck yeah.


Austin: And that’s a success. All right. Wrench. 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Is this retreat time?


Sylvia: I think I'm gonna retreat back to…I'm trying to decide if, like…does it matter if I'm at 14 or 15? Like, not really.


Austin: Fifteen would let you slam this turn.


Sylvia: Okay.


Austin: Fourteen basically guarantees that it will move up to 15, right?


Sylvia: Okay, then I’ll just go to 15. Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, okay. Boom. And then SC. Oh, you will go to 15. Sorry, yes, there you go. And then SC will try to advance. Sorry, that's actually minus one. That’s only a five. I didn't check. SC advances right behind you, Froggy. You're between the two chip tigers at this point.


Ali: Mm.


Art: Well, it could pass.


Austin: No. Froggy held. 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Art: Oh, because it was two. That's right, yeah.


Austin: Yeah, mm-hmm.


Art: Great.


Austin: And then, that is…no, I guess…is this the thing, though? Wait, wait, wait. Maybe we don't. Maybe you do only want to go back to– because at this point, Jackpot Supreme can try to advance again, and that would let it slip past.


Art: Well, why didn't– we didn't get a hold roll from Wrench, which we should have.


Austin: Isn't retreating the maneuver? 


Art: I thought…


Austin: Yeah. Retreating is…


Ali: Yeah, it's the move in the Heli-cam Phase.


Austin: It’s the move in Heli–


Art: Oh, it’s the maneuver?


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Sorry, it's the move in Heli-cam Phase, yeah. Mm-hmm. Again, the nice thing here is it's not good at advancing, so. Yeah, you cannot both retreat and hold.


Ali: But it's a D6 plus negative one, right?


Austin: Yeah, yeah, exactly. So, D6 minus one. It's only a four, and that pushback is six. It stops. It can't get past you. Tell me what that looks like, Wrench, as this huge mammoth boxed off behemoth tries to bully you off the road but you manage to keep it from doing that.


Sylvia: The way I'm picturing this is that like my car is basically the second biggest on the track now, in relation to this one.


Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.


Sylvia: So it's all a lot of just like barely being able to be more maneuverable than it [Austin: “Right”] and get in its way and like cut off– like, keep it from getting on the like inner part of turns and stuff, so it can't really like improve its time. More than anything, I'm just sort of trying to keep it at a steady pace so Trip can get past it.


Austin (as Brobert): Jill, this is why they say that this is where the big cars come to play.


Ali (as Jill): And we're seeing the biggest cars of the…of the sport on the track right here! [Austin laughs quietly] Welcome to the Tri-City Anniversary Race. We're returning to lap two here in the incredible Blough City. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Uh huh. Uh huh.


Austin (as Brobert): Oh, it's incredible, isn't it? I'm glad I don't live here. 


Austin: Feel so clean, like a money machine. 


Ali (as Jill): It’s great to visit, though.


Austin (as Brobert): Yeah, it is great to visit in a situation like this, where we get to stay in our little hover booth. By the way, everybody at home: you might not know this, but we do all of our commentary in a flying hover booth, sort of like a helicopter but fancier.


Ali (as Jill): That's right, and you can learn more about this at gravityrip.com/helicopter to preorder yours today. [Austin and Ali laugh]


Austin: All right, it is time for the Maneuvers Phase. Trip?


Sylvia: If you order now, you can get the special Cheddar Cheese Man color. [Austin and Ali laugh]


Ali: I guess it should have been like tri-city.com/communityeffort/…


Austin: No, you got it right. [Ali laughs]


Austin (as Brobert): Cheddar, I understand that this special edition in your colors was hand customized by you. 


Sylvia (as Cheddar): That's right.


Art (as Cheddar): Yeah, that’s correct.


Art: Oh. Who’s Cheddar? [Sylvia and Ali laugh]


Sylvia: You go ahead. Go ahead.


Austin (as Brobert): That's Cheddar, and that’s Cheese Man. Cheddar Cheese Man, of course, with the dual vocalizer upgrade. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]


Sylvia: Oh, goddammit.


Art: I'm so sorry.


Sylvia: No, it's fine! Go right ahead.


Art: No, no, I…


Sylvia: I didn't– I was just like, “Well, someone's gotta do it,” and then you did it, so it's fine! [quiet laughter] Oh my God.


Art (as Cheddar): You know, I would say that I'm so embarrassed at my poor painting work that I won't be talking anymore this race. [all laugh]


Austin (as Brobert): All right, Cheddar. We'll see you next race. Say hey to your family for us. 


Art (as Cheddar): I won't.


Austin (as Brobert): Eh. You know what? More power to you.


Sylvia: Oh my God.


Austin: All right. Let's go into the Maneuvers Phase. Trip, it's overtake time.


Art: Yeah, but it's against a no one, so it's just–


Austin: So you just have to do…


Art: One overclock?


Austin: Yeah. Yeah. 


Art: All right. So, I take one Integrity.


Austin: That’s right.


Art: And I move into 19th place.


Austin: Wait, is that right? Against nobody, you just get the win?


Art: I don't know, that's how we played in the last lap. That's how the…


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: That’s how we played in the last lap. You're not wrong. You know what? I'm going to say yes. Mm…let's make a roll. This is important. This is not overtaking nobody. This is doing a…you're lapping the 19th racer on the court– on the track. [laughs quietly] I keep saying court.


Ali: What's the 19th racer care about it? [laughs] 


Austin: Listen, Double Double in the Double Teacup absolutely deserves to defend their spot.


Art: All right, so I'm rolling plus five?


Austin: I believe you're rolling plus five. And they’re rolling–


Art: It’s not great for a plus five. 


Austin: Yeah, but they're rolling a plus one, so you're gonna win. 


Art: I am going to win. [Ali laughs quietly]


Austin: They roll three. Boom, you slide past the Double Double– sorry, not the Double Double.


Art: The Double Double.


Austin: Double Double in the Double Teacup. Moving yourself well into first place, but first place having lapped. I guess, actually, you’re in 18th. You're at the 18th slot now, meaning next– that's it. This next lap, Double Double is gonna get escorted off of the track, having been lapped. Gravity RIP!


Art: I guess I could– oh, because they're not a player, they’re not a Rival, they can't…


Austin: They're not going to advance past you, no. They're done for, at this point. And everyone else slides up also, to represent this happening, right? All right. I think…I think Cameron does not have your poise, Froggy. Cameron is going to try to slam into Absolute Pluperfect. 


Ali: Mm.


Austin: You know, Cameron's been here since before the Pluperfects moved to town and started fucking things up, you know? So.


Ali: Yeah. 


Austin: So. Oof, only two.


Ali: Looking at this chart, there's nothing more important to me than letting Cameron win this race. [laughs quietly] 


Austin: I see. Well, no, Cameron’s gonna come in second right now, because though Trip is at the back of the line now, Trip is actually in the front.


Ali: Oh, sure, sure. Okay, yeah.


Austin: Trip has lapped, but Cameron getting a silver ain’t bad. Anyway, unfortunately, this attack did not work for Cameron. Cameron fucks up this slam attack, and–


Art: Which is minus two Integrity. Yikes. [Ali gasps] 


Austin: Minus two Integrity. Cameron can take it. Cameron's come in with a clean car, you know? [Ali laughs] However, Pluperfect is going to try to pass back here.


Ali: What does trying to slam against a hover car when you're just a car look like?


Austin: Remember, it's in hover car mode. 


Ali: Oh, sure, sure, sure.


Austin: It is smaller, though, but I can tell you what it is. It's going above and then going back into regular car mode, and so you just drop from the sky on top of it.


Sylvia: We're just playing Sonic All Star Racers Transformed. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Yes, 100%.


Sylvia: This is literally all that’s going on.


Austin: That is what is happening. Uh huh. All right, so here comes the attempted over– oh my god, rolled a six. This ain’t good. That's it. That's gonna be…that's gonna be a pass, for sure. Uh huh, it is.


Ali: Oh no.


Austin: So, overtakes, and Absolute is in second place. Will need to overclock to catch up to you next time, obviously, but maybe–


Art: And pass the Double Double or whatever it’s called, the animal style.


Austin: Pass the Double Double, but the Double Double is gonna get pulled off also at the end of next lap, so.


Art: Or the end of this…the end of this lap or the end of next? How does this…?


Austin: Next lap.


Art: Next lap.


Austin: You get one lap. You get one full lap before they get you. So.


Art: One full lap of meat shielding me from Pluperfect.


Austin: From Pluperfect, exactly. [laughs quietly] Poor Tate. What is Tate gonna–? Tate’s gonna try to– Tate is like, “All right, I can do it. I know how to race. I'm good at racing,” 
[Ali laughs quietly] and tries to move up past Cameron. All right. All right. Let's see how that works. Rolled a five. Hey! Tate is back in the mix! 


Ali: Wow.


Austin: Tate pushes up past– I think the thing that happens here is Cameron does that trick to like land on top of Pluperfect, and Pluperfect just slams on the brakes, knowing it's about to happen, causing Castle’s car to just kind of hit the ground back in regular car mode, and then Pluperfect and Tate just fly right over top of it into second and third place. Froggy, you are up.


Ali: Yeah. Can I do a free advance against Castle, or does that have to be…?


Austin: You could do a free advance if you would like to.


Ali: Okay. Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, Castle will let you do it.


Ali: Because I think what I’m going to try to do is overtake Tate.


[1:15:00]


Art: I don't know that you can free advance during maneuvers.


Ali: I thought so too.


Art: It only says you can retreat.


Ali: Yeah.


Art: That's about blocking. You can get past…a hold, rather.


Austin: Mm. Or a hold.


Art: But in…


Austin: I think we allowed free swaps between team members.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Art: Okay.


Austin: To where you wouldn't defend, but I don't think that– but that will be your maneuver this turn. 


Ali: Okay, sure.


Austin: Because maneuvers are fundamentally about one spot, unless you– you can always– you can retreat for free, to then– retreat one extra spot to do a maneuver, but you can't advance a free spot, so to speak. I'm double checking. Yeah, you can sacrifice position before you do a maneuver. You can sacrifice one spot, but you can't trade up with a partner and then also do a maneuver. Your maneuver is just an uncontested overtake, if that makes sense. 


Ali: Sure.


Austin: So you're in the– you'll be in the running this next coming round, basically.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: SC is going to try to advance as well. [laughs quietly] SC rolled a zero.


Ali: Aw! [laughs] 


Austin: SC is not going anywhere. In fact–


Art: Oh, that’s a free slam.


Austin: That is a free slam. Does Cameron take the free slam? Do you have a choice in the matter? You have the opportunity for a free slam. 


Art: It’s “may,” yeah.


Austin: Right? Oooh.


Art: A free slam attempt. Does that mean you still have to roll it?


Austin: You still have to roll it.


Art: Okay. 


Austin: Yeah, you still have to roll it, but you– it's a way you could get two in one turn still, you know?


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: I don't think Cameron is going to take it. Cameron has his eyes on Absolute and on this fucking car back there. I think that that's it. And then we come back around to you, Wrench.


Sylvia: Yeah. I think it's slam time.


Austin: Oh, hell yeah. All right.


Sylvia: Okay. 


Austin: Give me a D6 plus Weight.


Sylvia: What's the Weight on this thing, by the way?


Austin: Oh, it's five. [quiet laughter] 


Sylvia: That is very good to know.


Austin: Yours is– what is yours, a two? 


Sylvia: Mine’s a two, so I am gonna overclock for this.


Austin: You could overclock. Yeah, uh huh.


Sylvia: Yeah. I'm going to use two points to overclock by two. 


Austin: Okay. 


Sylvia: So that gets me up to a plus four for this roll. 


Austin: Yep, sounds good.


Sylvia: That’s a seven?


Austin: That’s a seven. It's possible.


Sylvia: [skeptical] Mm…


Austin: It's possible.


Sylvia: They need to roll a two or a one.


Austin: That's a two and– yeah, uh huh.


Sylvia: Yeah. They rolled a one. 


Austin: And they rolled a one!


Sylvia: We love to see a girlboss winning, don't we?


Austin: You simply love it. So, it immediately takes minus two damage, right? or takes two damage.


Sylvia: Mm-hmm.


Austin: And then you roll a D6 to determine additional damage.


Sylvia: Let’s fucking…


Art: Oh, wait, no. Don't they choose to take additional damage or minus one–?


Austin: No, the victor rolls a D6 to determine additional damage, and the loser must choose between taking the result in extra Integrity loss or surrendering the encounter, dropping back one position. So, you get to know how much. Four. I think, given that it can see you moving up behind it, Trip, it's going to take the damage, so it's going to take a total of six damage. Armor plating. What's the attack look like, Wrench?


Sylvia: I was kind of thinking of it as being like a feint, where it seems like I'm letting them overtake, [Austin: “Mm-hmm”] and then sort of sideswipe into them.


Austin: Mm.


Sylvia: And I think like the overclocking, it’s got like fire coming out of the exhaust and shit. You know, very cool things happening. 


Austin: Mm-hmm. Totally. 


Sylvia: But yeah, I think…for some reason, whenever we've played this, I think of the cars moving in the way that the Vin Diesel video game Wheelman had cars move. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course. 


Sylvia: So I just do the little side bump thing from that.


Austin: Love it. Okay. It's almost like, cars don't move like that. They can't pivot in that imaginary way. Yours can. All right.


Sylvia: Mm-hmm.


Austin: I think– is it gonna just try to pass you?


Art: I think we've all played that game. I don't think we need to say anything more.


Austin: You're right. You're right. Sorry. We're all big fans. 


Art: Yeah.


Sylvia: It’s a good game.


Austin: Of Wheelman by Vin Diesel. [quiet laughter] 


Sylvia: (??? 1:19:16)


Austin: It's better than Spy Hunter starring Dwayne Johnson.


Sylvia: It is.


Austin: I'll say that.


Art: I can’t believe you're stoking this rivalry again on this. [Austin and Ali laugh]


Austin: Someone has to. It now gets a turn, right? 


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Because its turn wasn't defending. I think it's going to try to hit you back.


Sylvia: Damn, okay!


Austin: What's your Integrity at?


Sylvia: My Integrity is at eight.


Austin: Right, okay. It's gonna try to slam back at you. D6 plus five. Ooh! 


Art: Oh!


Austin: It rolled a three! So, it rolled an eight total. It's conceivable. It’s just–


Sylvia: I have to overclock to beat this.


Austin: Oh, you do.


Sylvia: Yeah, because otherwise– the highest I could roll is a tie.


Austin: [sighs] You're right. I mean, you could spend all of your–


Art: You don’t have to do it. You could just…


Austin: Uh huh.


Art: Take two and then don't take the additional damage.


Sylvia: But can it overtake me, then?


Art: Well, if you–


Austin: Yeah, it would.


Art: Yeah, if you moved back one, it would go ahead of you, but that's…


Austin: Yeah.


Sylvia: Yeah, and the whole plan of me being here is so it doesn't overtake me so you can overtake it.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Art: Well, we've really gotten ourselves into a weird position with how rolls work. [laughs] 


Austin: That's the game!


Sylvia: I'm just gonna roll this, if…


Austin: What are you overclocking? Also, you have a Radical point.


Sylvia: Can a Radical point be used to give me a bonus, though, or just a reroll?


Austin: No, no, to reroll. But I'm saying if– let's say you overclock it a bunch, and then you fuck up the roll. You don’t fuck up the roll; the roll fucks you over. You could try to reroll it, you know? 


Sylvia: Okay, then I will fucking overclock another, uh…oh.


Austin: You're at eight Integrity, yeah?


Sylvia: I'm at eight Integrity. I need at least three overclock to match the like modifier value. 


Austin: Mm-hmm. 


Sylvia: I'm going to do two, so…I don't have two Integrity. I have six Integrity.


Austin: You have six Integrity, so that means you're rolling–


Sylvia: And now this is gonna be plus four.


Austin: Plus four. D6 plus four. 


Sylvia: Motherfucker. 


Austin: You win it. You fucking–


Sylvia: I’m so good at this game. 


Austin: You're so fucking good at this game! [Ali laughs] That's right. 


Sylvia: I rolled a nine.


Austin: So that means you now succeed at the block, which means…


Art: It’s failure slam. Racer takes minus two Integrity.


Austin: Racer takes– so another two hits the Jackpot Supreme. I think, at this point, the like cockpit shield comes off, and you just see that it is a slot-machine-shaped robot driving this thing. [Ali gasps]


Sylvia: [laughs] I knew it! I mean, I didn’t know–


Austin: It's just like, what if IG-88 was a slot machine, you know?


Sylvia: I was like, I knew there would be some sort of slot machine in there.


Austin: Uh huh. And the wheels, like the slot wheels are spinning, and that's like it thinking. Do you know what I mean? 


Sylvia: Oh, that’s really good.


Austin: And it’s like even showing what it's– like, you know, each of the wheels spins, and it lands on like, “SLAM,” and so that's why it tried to slam attack, you know? It’s like, “[robotic buzz] S-L-A-M, slam!” and then it misses you, you know? 


Sylvia: Oh, really good. 


Austin: All right. I believe you could now attempt a free slam in retaliation, right? But, boy. [Sylvia laughs]


Art: No, no, that's for a failed overtake. 


Austin: Oh, that’s only a failed overtake.


Art: A failed slam, it’s just the minus two integrity.


Austin: Oh, okay. Just the minus two. I got you.


Sylvia: Okay, good, because I can’t afford it right now.


Austin: I was gonna say, that's expensive. You're really…you're kind of going toe-to-toe. 


Austin (as Brobert): I gotta tell you, Jill: I did not expect Wrench to go toe-to-toe, body shot for body shot, against the Jackpot Supreme.


Ali (as Jill): Well, we've seen Wrench on this track before, and she's not afraid to let people know she's coming. Beep beep. [Sylvia and Austin laugh]


Austin (as Brobert): You know, that is what it says on her jacket. It does say, “Beep beep.” [Sylvia and Ali laugh] 


Sylvia: Absolutely does! 


Austin: Uh huh. And then, underneath, “Who's got the keys to the Jeep?” It says that also, but in cursive.


Ali: Mm. [laughs] 


Sylvia: Oh my God. A nice satin jacket, yeah?


Austin: Christ. All right. That is our…is that our second lap?


Sylvia: That is our second lap, yeah.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: All right. It is going into lap three. As a reminder, there’s only four laps on this fucking thing. It used to be that there was only three, and I gave that extra one, and I'm glad I did is what I will say. [Ali laughs quietly] So, you've now come through the Blough City part of the tunnel and are moving into Bluff City, and this is the first time we've seen Bluff City this far into the future. And I think it's…the thing I want to communicate with what Bluff City looks like now is scale and tone. You know, I think maybe even the way it happens is you're driving through part of the tunnel where there are suddenly kind of holes cut in the side of the tunnel, so you can look out and see the world beyond, and each time that we look through one of these kind of windows, we see Bluff City changing over time, right? We see it all the way back in its kind of 1920s version—or 1900 version, rather—from our Mall Kids game. You know, you see the big Somers wheel, but it's mostly really small buildings, right? Yeah, there are a couple of resorts, but, you know, we're not talking about the casino age. Then we see the casinos get built. We see the larger hotels. We see the part of time where it was the kind of dreary 1970s Bluff City, where Millennium Alexander Black was here hunting vampires. We see the version of Bluff City where it is the era of the Masks kids running around, and things are again kind of bright and cheery. We see the version of town where it is our initial sort of near future game, where there was the weird police state that had taken over Bluff City, and they were all wearing like masquerade masks all the time. You know, the part where there was Showdogs hot dogs, that era of Bluff City, the Noirlandia.


Art: Nothing more dystopian than that. 


Austin: A hundred percent, uh huh. And then we see this incredible boom for Bluff City, where the buildings get taller and taller, until they are not just, you know, “Oh yeah, it's a pretty tall casino. That's a 15, 20, 30 floor casino.” That's a 40, 50, 60 floor skyscraper. The kind of styling of the city moves from being this kind of traditional, you know, East Coast modernist vibe. Or not modernist, kind of East Coast just contemporary architecture vibe, to being modernist, to being increasingly Art Deco, increasingly crystalline in shape. The closest thing that I can think of is, and just a real touchstone for me in general for Bluff City, is…it’s Opal City in Starman? In Robinson Starman, Art, is that right?


Art: Mm-hmm. Yeah.


Austin: Yeah. So, increasingly, this city that is this kind of beautiful city by the ocean, that grows in size and scale compared to where we've seen it before. This is the sort of like, what if the Warner Bros. circa Batman: The Animated Series, Superman 1990s cartoon, did a Bluff City show, right? That is what this looks like. And they were like, “Well, we already know how to make really pretty Art Deco cities, so we're just going to do that again.” Huge, you know, tall structures that then have these kind of like beautiful glass domes on the very top. Yeah, there's a…sorry, a Somers wheel. It's the biggest one you've ever seen. You know? It is the size of a skyscraper. Just this glorious place by day. And by night, which it turns to as you do this part of the race, the sun begins to set, you know, it begins to fill with a sort of mist and mystery. Suddenly, you can't quite see the tops of these skyscrapers, and you can hear the sound of police sirens, and you can just about make out, you know, the vision of, you know, people jumping from rooftop to rooftop, up to no good. Or maybe up to stopping no good; who could say? And then, below, the race continues. What are you doing?


Art: And if Paul Dini or Bruce Timm listen to that and are like, “You know what I really want to do is make a Bluff City animated series that looks like the 1990s Batman: The Animated Series…”

Austin: Yeah. Uh huh.


Art: You call us. We’ll…


Austin: Yeah, you let us know.


Art: Yeah, we're here to talk. 


Austin: Mm-hmm. [laughs quietly] Trip, I'm guessing you're advancing.


Art: Here's where we've come into like a rules thing.


Austin: Mm-hmm?


Art: Which is that I can just roll a high enough advance [Austin: “Mm-hmm, to win”] to pass before anyone gets a chance to hold.


Austin: Uh, no, you can't, because this is the thing about– remember, the Heli-cam Phase happens all at once. Everyone gets their full turn, and then this is why they don't want you narrating mid Heli-cam Phase is because you're supposed to kind of do all of the rolls and then summarize what happens, because everything here is abstracted. 


Art: Mm.


Austin: Which is to say: you could overtake, or you could advance and then get advanced upon in a weird way here, you know? But you would still end up one step away in a case like that, probably, right?


Art: Well, I could pass Wrench, and then…


Austin: You could choose not to. Oh, yeah, you could, 100%.


Art: And then Wrench could hold. 


Austin: Yep. 


Art: And then it would be over. 


Austin: Yep. Well, then you'd have one turn, during which it would try to kill you all, presumably, or at least kill one of you.


Art: Right, but I would end up in like…it would have to really advance to try to kill me.


Austin: To try to kill you. Or, yeah, uh huh. All right. Give me your advance. Now's the time. Are you gonna overclock it?


Art: That’s pretty bad. No, I didn't. I just rolled it.


Austin: You gonna Radical point it?


Art: I am gonna Radical it, yeah. That’s…


Austin: Yeah, rolling a one on this is a bad idea is what I would say. [Ali laughs quietly] Art rolled a one, plus four is five. That's not good enough, so let's see what the second follow up is. Better. A seven.


Art: Seven, that's not bad. 


Austin: That's not bad. All right, here's the pushback. Only a three. You do it. You slide up four spots, as of right this second, which gets you exactly in front of it, right? [Ali gasps] Because you– wait, let me see. Is that right?


[1:30:01]


Art: Well, and I can take an Integrity to move one more, right?


Austin: Let me just double check. One, two– oh, wait, no, sorry, because it's one, two, three, and then four would be in front of Froggy, right?


Art: Yeah. Right, because people slide back as you pass them. 


Austin: As you pass them, exactly. So I'm just going to double check that one more time. So again: one, two, three…


Art: Four.


Austin: Four. Yeah. Mm-hmm.


Ali: Wow. 


Austin: That's great. That's what you love to see.


Art: And it's super bad for Absolute. I know we're not really focusing on who's going to win the race, but…


Austin: [laughs quietly] Yeah. You've put a lot of distance between you and Absolute Pluperfect here, who goes next but can only hold in this phase, because needs to overtake in order to lap, right? Those are the rules. So, here comes at that attempt, at least, to hold. Oh, wait, no, that's wrong. It's not plus three, because Absolute is not actually in first place so can't use Acceleration. Instead, has to use Weight, which is minus one. That's only a three to hold. 


Ali: Wow.


Austin: Pushback is a five. Cannot hold. 


Art: But doesn't automatically fall back either, because– yeah.


Austin: No, but Tate is going to try to push here, and Tate rolls a…just a flat D6. Oh, that's a six! Tate advances. [Ali gasps] Can't lap, can't get back to where you are yet, but does push past Absolute. Froggy, you are up.


Ali: Whoa.


Austin: You've seen this happen. You've seen. I guess the thing that happens there is I think this time we get the opposite, right? Absolute is so…has written Tate off so badly that they're like, “[scoffs] I don’t even– I can just focus on staying in the front,” and that's not true. Should have played more defensively; failed to play more defensively.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Was focused on gunning it and not focused on taking the turns defensively, and so definitely a shot of them looking out the side of this like super slick car they have and seeing Tate sliiide past them and doing a little wave, doing a little, “Hey, how you doing? You’re behind me now,” and they are. Froggy, you're up.


Ali: I think that I've also learned a valuable lesson in offensive driving. 


Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.


Ali: And I think what I need to do is advance to set myself up for the fix to double slam next time. [laughs] 


Austin: There you go. All right. Give me your Acceleration, which is plus two, right? A very balanced car, the Sharpshooter.


Ali: Yes. One D6 plus two, and then I think I'm gonna…I realized I like just forgot the Integrity mechanic last time, [Austin: “Mm-hmm”] but I think I'm gonna save my Integrities for…


Austin: For slams? 


Ali: The Maneuvers Phase, because this seems like a roll that is in my favor.


Austin: Yeah. Totally. And even if it isn't, you're still close enough to slam, right? 


Ali: Right, yeah, exactly. 


Austin: I guess you could get overtaken, but yeah. It's true.


Ali: Oh, sure. 


Austin: But we know that that's not going to happen from, uh…


Ali: Castle. 


Austin: I almost said Chip, but Chip DiReclio is not here. [Ali laughs] Chip Directly is not here in a car.


Ali: Oh, bummer.


Austin: Yes, Cameron R. Castle. Maybe Cameron R. Castle is also sponsored by Chip Directly’s or Chip Directly Jr.’s, “Coats” Jr., Coats Directly Jr.


Ali: [laughs quietly] Okay, so I'm rolling this. One D6 plus two is a six.


Austin: Yep, and pushback is a five, so yeah, you're able to move up by one.


Ali: Wow.


Austin: Overtaking Absolute Pluperfect. How do you do it?


Ali: I think it's one of those things of like, we're leaving the tunnel. We're entering Bluff City again now, right? 


Austin: Yep. 


Ali: And I think like once you're in– well, actually, maybe this doesn't make sense, because we just had that…


Austin: Mm.


Ali: [laughs] Because I was thinking– oh, I guess it works in both places, because when you're in a tunnel, you're one by one, right? And then you sort of have like this…I feel like maybe in the like fanning out part of this…


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: Like, Plu was so focused on Tate [Austin: “Yeah”] that Tate goes by and does the hand wave and Plu’s like, [Austin: “Uh huh”] “I'm so mad about this. I’m distracted by this. I'm looking to the right,” and then Froggy comes up on the left, and then it's like, [Austin: “Yeah”] “I am now third place. I'm a loser.” 


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. Uh huh. Fourth place.


Art: Fourth place. 


Austin: Because Trip is in first, so is in fourth place. [Ali laughs] Pluperfect is not even going to get a medal anymore.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: If you can hold this spot for a full remaining lap.


Ali: I like stealth took the positioning here.


Austin: A hundred percent. Now Cameron is going to hold this position. Crushes it. Crushes it. [Ali laughs] Rolls a six, holds firm. You know, at some point here, we get the shot of, you know, Cameron switching back obviously into hover mode. And then we get– I think maybe here with that six, we get that like the car tires that have been doing just regular hover, like downward– again, I'm imagining the car from Back to the Future here, the DeLorean, with its tires kind of horizontal instead of vertical. But now they kind of go out in an angle a little bit, so they're able to do like hover pushes. They're able to like push—with like magnetic force—cars away that try to pass. So, SC is trying to like, “[frustrated] I'm trying to get past you, and I can't do it,” and instead gets kind of held back. So SC is also going to hold, which should be able to do quite easily with…well, okay. [laughs] I rolled D36.


Art: You rolled a D63? 


Austin: Or D63. 


Art: And you got a 61. That's really good.


Austin: Yeah, that’s really good. [Sylvia laughs] Unfortunately– oh, it's gonna be fine. Oh, wait, is hold…we just did this, and I already forget. Hold tie goes to the holder, right?


Art: Tie goes to the holder, yeah.


Austin: Yeah, so does manage to hold, not that it really matters all the way back here. Wrench, you're up.


Sylvia: Yeah. I think I'm just gonna hold here. 


Austin: Yeah. If you can hold here, that's the ball game, effectively. I mean, it's already the ball game, if…yeah, it's the ball game. If you hold here, it's the ball game.


Sylvia: Okay, so, it would be good–


Art: Well, there’s another round. There's another ball game, but it's really good for this ball game.


Austin: But this round– but the second it gets lapped, which will be after this phase, it will be disqualified, which means one lap from now, it’ll get removed from the track safely. So, if Wrench can successfully hold it and prevent it from taking its position right now…because remember, this hasn't happened yet, in the way the rules work.


Art: Oh, but it doesn't– it can't pass me on the next lap and get back into the– 


Austin: Correct.


Art: Okay.


Austin: Correct. The second that it's disqualified or it's lapped, it's disqualified, so this would confirm the disqualification, effectively. In the kind of way the camera is shooting this, you have not yet lapped it, Trip. You're contesting it strongly for it to be lapped, but it's able to fight back, and you're kind of neck and neck, but you haven't quite pulled away. So we're now looking for Wrench to kind of deliver the final blow and allow you to have that space to pass. So, no pressure, Wrench.


Art: No pressure. 


Sylvia: [laughs] Um, yeah. 


Austin: Is it overclock time again?


Sylvia: Yeah, but I'm gonna just do one, because I'm already only at six Integrity. Like, I'll be at half by the time I use this. 


Austin: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's fair.


Art: Well, it's fine, because you just have to beat the pushback. You don’t have to…


Austin: You just have to beat six, right?


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: You need to get at least a six here. 


Sylvia: I got a four. I rolled a one.


Austin: You have one more Radical Bonus.


Sylvia: I'm gonna use my Radical Bonus. [Ali laughs quietly]


Austin: Okay. [gasps]


Sylvia: Oh my God. 


Austin: Oh no! Okay.


Sylvia: They hate to see a girlboss winning.


Austin: They do. They do hate to see it. I guess, let's see the pushback. Roll D6. Oh, five!


Sylvia: Fuck off!


Austin: You hate to see it. You hate to see it. All right, well, it truly does come down to this. You're trying to hold it back, but you realize you just can't. You can't push back on it. You can't quite keep it from getting past you in this scenario. I guess we'll see what the roll looks like, but you sense, Wrench, that you can't hold it back just by sheer, you know, basic maneuvering. So instead, we're just gonna have to see if it has the power to pass both you and Trip, rolling a D6 minus one. I guess it could overclock, but I haven't been running it that way. But it should probably try to overclock, right?


Art: Maybe. I mean, it's taken some damage. I don't know what its Integrity is at.


Austin: Yeah, it’s still basically fine.


Art: I hear it's in bad shape. That’s what I’ve heard.


Austin: But what's interesting is if it starts to…if it overclocks, it does get into…I'd say it's about halfway there, right? And we've torn its armor plating off. You can see its body. You can see the driver’s AI in this slot machine server. I don't think yet– maybe as this is happening, as you're jockeying for position, we can see the big MP shift, you know, weird magnetic pulse machine kind of become freed from its armor plating also, and you can see that magnetic tape is running right now, and it's like distorting the air around the hover tank. It's very much doing something during this entire race. It's definitely…maybe you even realize that like in the latter part of looking out at Bluff City, as it's running, Bluff City is getting bigger as it drives through it. It's as if it's…in the movie of this, Ronnie would be explaining to you as like the techie who understands the thing. 


Austin (as Ronnie): It's like when you suck stuff up in a vacuum, and then you hit the reverse button on the vacuum and then shoot it all out!


Austin: And so, it's as if, as it's been driving through Bluffington–


Art (as Trip): That’s not how anyone uses a vacuum, Ronnie. 


Austin: I know, but that's how people talk about it in movies all the time, because they need a metaphor for a thing or a simile. But as it's driving through these other cities, it's been sucking up like the life energy or the cultural will or something of these places and siphoning it for one big kind of push to basically permanently cut off and ruin Bluffington and Blough City from Bluff City, to kind of sap everything they have left and give it all to Bluff. I said this in a previous game this season, but like, part of what's happened with this Tri-City Tunnel and the people who've been running it is that it has been slowly draining the people and the life from these other places, sending it to Bluff City, and I'm not misspeaking. I'm not saying Bluff instead of Blough by mistake. I'm not saying Bluff instead of Bluffington. Like, it's Bluff. The place that we know and love has turned out to be the place that saw these other places, or someone there saw those other places and said, “No, those places shouldn't exist. My place should exist,” and has taken action to make that happen, maybe with some unforeseen consequences, as we'll find out. Anyway, here's my D6 minus one attempted advance. I am going to burn…I'm going to burn two Integrity on this to make it a plus one instead of a minus one. And that's a five. Here's the pushback. 


Art: Come on, pushback! 


Austin: It's only a three, so it literally–


Art: That’s enough. 


Austin: It is enough, right? Because it moves past literally both of you, right?


Ali: Oh, did Art not have a successful hold?


Art: I was advancing.


Ali: Oh.


Austin: Art was advancing. Wait, is that true?


Art: But I could still overtake in Maneuvers.


Austin: You could still overtake in Maneuvers. This is correct, Art. 


Ali: Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah. 


Austin: Uh huh. And you go first, so it gets tricky, but you could overtake in Maneuvers. That's absolutely true. But that means that you did not in fact overtake it ever during this Heli-cam Phase, because again, the Heli-cam Phase is abstracted and gets totaled now at the end of the phase. So yeah, you've pulled up right behind it. In attempting to box it in, Wrench, you've actually lost position and have wound up behind it also, but in the process, you know, Trip did move up in front of you. So, I think that's where we are now. Let me make this note to reduce its Integrity. All right.


Ali: I have a little bit of a lore question, and I think that there's like [Austin: “Absolutely”] maybe an opportunity to see like Ronnie watching the race here. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: Because part of the ask was to not let the car finish the race, right? 


Austin: Uh huh. 


Ali: And are we now out of the ability to disqualify it before…?


Austin: No, there's four laps. There's still one more full lap, so...


Ali: Oh, so if…okay, so if…


Austin: All you have to do is try to– I mean, what I will say is: knocking it out earlier would have been better.


Ali: Sure. [laughs quietly] 


Austin: But knocking it out before it can get its big final…you know, you can think of it as–


Art: It sort of feels like as fast as it was gonna happen. 


Austin: Eh, you could have rolled–


Art: We had to have a very good race.


Austin: You could have been more aggressive off the top. Y'all could have tried to slam into it right away and just thrown yourselves at it. Looking at the numbers, I mean, it's losing some Integrity. I gave it some extra Integrity, but I didn’t give it that much extra Integrity, you know? So, you're doing pretty good, but, you know, it is what it is. I definitely intended for it to at least get one full lap of this, but yes, Ali, go ahead. Lore question.


Ali: Right, so we're still within like win space, but Art would need to end this lap in front of it, right?


Austin: Either end this lap in front of it or–


Ali: Beat the shit out of it?


Austin: Before the race finishes, beat the shit out of it. 


Ali: Okay.


Austin: Yep. And it's in beat the shit out of it territory. 


Ali: Okay.


Austin: Like, it really is. You know, based on those last couple of times that Wrench did. I mean, those rolls could just go different this time, and it could be bad, but you know. Anyway, Trip. I'm guessing you're gonna try to overtake.


Art: How much Integrity should I commit to this overtake?


Austin: I mean, you know it can only roll…it’s rolling minus one. It could try to over–


Art: Well, no, it rolls Weight.


[1:45:00]


Austin: Oh, right, it rolls Weight, so it rolls plus five. [laughs quietly] Right.


Art: I roll plus four, so it's not like…


Austin: Okay. That's not too bad. 


Art: But like, I could put four points in this, you know?


Austin: Yeah.


Art: Can it put four points in? Like…


Austin: You don't know. What do you…are you trying to figure it out? You could give me a Theory check to scan it and see.


Art: If I put four in [Austin: “Uh huh”] and lose, I explode.


Austin: Is that true? 


Art: Because it gets a free slam, which always does minus two.


Austin: Well, because– it gets a free slam attempt, right? 


Art: Well, it has five, and I have minus one, so…


Austin: You're gonna probably explode, yeah. Yeah.


Art: So, if I do three, it gives me a chance to not explode. 


Austin: Mm-hmm. Here's my question: is Trip the person who's like, “I need to make sure I don't explode”?


Art: Well, if I explode, it becomes– I guess it doesn’t become that trickier. If I explode, they probably use some Integrity to make me explode.


Austin: And you’re Chaos five, is all I'm saying.


Art: All right, I'm gonna put five points of Integrity into this. 


Austin: [laughs quietly] All right. 


Art: So I'm going to roll plus nine.


Sylvia: Holy shit.


Austin: Wait, wait, wait. Don't do that, right? Because– I guess so, right? The thing that's happening here is this is like– Art, we're doing L5R duels. [Ali laughs] Right?


Art: Oh, I guess I can't do it, because then they can just– they can slam me once I've overtaken, and then they’re not lapped.


Austin: Right. They are gonna have a counter slam. Well, no, they will have been lapped, because this happens immediately. So they will have been lapped, and they will lose.


Art: But if they then slam and destroy me immediately…


Austin: They still will have been lapped and have been disqualified.


Art: Is that true?


Austin: A hundred percent. This happens instantly.


Art: I guess, who am I asking? You're just…


Austin: This phase happens instantly. This happens in linear time. This is not an abstraction that gets…


Art: All right, so all I have to do is– 


Austin: Also, they can't go immediately. They can't go immediately. They go after everybody else goes, which I guess no one else is going to like back up to catch up to them at this point. That’s just not how it’s gonna work, but…


Art: Well, I mean, I guess Wrench could overtake instead of slam, in an attempt to…


Austin: No, because they are going to go before Wrench. Wrench is behind you.


Art: Oh, right, okay.


Austin: So, yeah. Unfortunate. But.


Art: So if you're saying all I need to do is get in front of them for a moment of time…


Austin: For a moment of time, for a moment of time.


Art: Then I should–


Austin: Yeah.


Art: I should just roll plus nine. 


Austin: Ah– [Ali laughs quietly]


Art: Because they can't sell out like this, right? They can't go down to one Integrity. 


Austin: [exhales] They could try. 


Art: Well, then I think they should slammed to death right after. I mean… [Art and Sylvia laugh]


Austin: Then they get– right, exactly. Right. That is the setup, right? This is why I'm saying this is like an L5R duel where we're both wagering. I think we should both put down how much we're going to do in our bonus, privately, and then just do it. Do you know what I mean? 


Art: Okay.


Austin: And hit roll at the same time, so.


Art: Oh, we roll at the same– so do the whole thing, okay.


Austin: Let's just do the whole thing at the same time. So that is– again, your base is what? It's plus four?


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: And you had how much Integrity going into it?


Art: Oh, whoops, I didn't undo it. 


Austin: That's fine. 


Art: I had six. 


Austin: I think you had– you had six, so you're adding up to plus five. All right, I'm going to change it on my sheet to see how much it's going to try to– because again, it loses if this happens. It loses its– it's a robot, and it has a goal, and its goal is to complete this race, so it's going for it. Okay, ready?


Art: Well, hold on. Here's the other thing is I do have one more Radical point. 


Austin: Oh, it's true. 


Art: So we have this reveal, but then we also have the potential of me…


Austin: Of Radical pointing it. 


Art: Trying again, yeah. 


Austin: Yeah. All right. Three, two, one, go. Holy shit, it tied. We tied. [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: Motherfucker.


Art: What happens? 


Sylvia: Wait, isn't there a tie– doesn't it have rules for when there's a tie? 


Austin: It must, right? Overtake…


Sylvia: Or is that only for block? 


Austin: No, overtake has to have one. On a successful roll, you creep past–


Art: What’s successful? 


Austin: On a failed roll…it's in here somewhere. It's in here somewhere. Tie. Resolving conflict phases in the maneuvers roll. In the case of overtake or block, result of a tie is that the machine in the higher position wins, so it would beat you here. [Ali gasps]


Art: No, I'm in the higher position. I'm in first.


Austin: But you're behind it. You're overtaking it.


Art: That's not what it says. [laughs quietly] I'm in the higher position.


Austin: You know what? It does say you're in the higher. It does say the higher position. [laughter] 


Art: It doesn’t say who’s in front.


Sylvia: It makes sense, because you're going much faster.


Austin: You're going much faster. I'll give it to you. I think you're right. [Ali laughs] I think that that's the rules lawyering–


Austin (as Brobert): That's the rules lawyering Trip Uncertainty is known for, Jill! 


Austin: That's not how rules work in play, but it does do that. For the record, it absolutely spent all but one of its Integrity on this roll. You both rolled D6 plus nine. You both rolled a three. [Ali laughs] You both rolled 12.


Art: Oh, I'm gonna blow up, and I really– can I Radical Bonus my “not die” roll?


Austin: I bet you could.


Art: All right.


Sylvia: Let’s hope.


Austin: Lets you do over any dice roll. Yeah.


Art: All right, okay, so let's get ready for that.


Austin: Uh huh. All right.


Art: Oh, but I guess it’s gonna come way later. [laughs] 


Austin: It’s gonna come way later. So, this happens, and we get the big victory, right? “He did it! He did it!” You know, Ronnie is like: 


Austin (as Ronnie): Yes, yes, yes!


Austin: And then we get like the come down beat, and it's like:


Austin (as Brobert): There is still, you know, a round or a lap of racing yet to go, folks.


Austin: And we also definitely get the like…there's like some sort of digital HUD display that just shows the two of you as just pure lines on a chart, and like the moment you pass by one pixel, the big “Disqualified” stamp hits on the, uh…why am I blanked on this name again? The Jackpot Supreme. Unfortunately, I've also just realized something. Wrench.


Sylvia: I’m also out.


Austin: You're also out. You've also been disqualified. [Ali gasps]


Sylvia: It happens.


Austin: You're also going to get magnet flipped out of the track one round from now, so.


Sylvia: Oh no!


Ali: Oh my God. 


Austin: It’s rough.


Sylvia: Is that gonna kill me? 


Austin: No, the magna-drones are very, very friendly. 


Sylvia: Okay.


Austin: Especially to someone who loves machines as much as Wrench does.


Sylvia: Yeah, that’s true. She's probably excited for this. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Yeah, you get a little note from the magna– the magna-drones are like, “Boop boop boop beep!”


Sylvia (as Wrench): [touched] Aw, beep beep beep boop.


Austin: [laughs] You get a little heads up display pointer to be like, “Here's where we're gonna rendezvous. Keep going the speed you're going now,” you know?


Sylvia: It’s just turning into like a casual little joyride for her. I love it. Perfect.


Austin: Uh huh! Uh huh. All right. I think Tate is going to just try to…I mean, I guess Tate could try at this point to overtake and lap also, to try to make a play on first place still, right? So that's what Tate is going to do.


Art: Well, especially because I'm about to explode. Tate is going to win this race.


Austin: Tate is going to over– is going to spend what few points he has to try to overtake here. Roll D6…


Art: Oh, but has to roll against…but has to roll against, um…


Austin: Whoever 18th is, right? Double Double.


Art: Well, no, because they’ve been…


Austin: No, Double Double is gone, so now it's Crystal Wise in the Red Swan Device.


Art: Oh, because I didn't pass them until this round?


Austin: Oh, you just passed them. Yeah, uh huh.


Art: Okay.


Austin: Right? I believe that that’s true.


Art: So 18 exists. It’s not…


Austin: Yeah, 18…


Art: It’s not Wrench. Okay.


Austin: It's not Wrench, exactly. So that's also going to be disqualified. They're all gonna get disqualified because of you lapping them all. But yeah, so roll D6 plus that over– what's overclocking actually do? It gives you…


Art: Plus one to your roll.


Austin: Plus one to your– or gives you plus one to your roll per…


Art: Per overclock.


Austin: Per thing you've done, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, plus one. Hey, that’s a six, and I'm just gonna roll straight D6 against it. Yeah, does it. Tate also moves up. Shout outs to Tate, moving into…let's just say, for the sake of ease, behind you, Wrench. I'm gonna get rid of this. All right. And then, Froggy, you’re up. 


Ali: Yeah. 


Austin: What do you want to do?


Ali: [sighs] This is a slam/block/slam, right?


Austin: This is the slam/block/slam, I believe.


Ali: [laughs] Yeah, I…yeah, yeah.


Austin: You've just gotta go hard, right?


Ali: Right. Well, because there's no way that I'm like…I guess I feel like I have it in my head that we have to like physically get this thing off of– like, not let it complete the race, but that's already going to happen, right?


Austin: Yep, you've got it, at this point. It's not going to complete the race. At this point, the real fear is it might kill Trip.


Ali: Okay, sure. But it's not going to complete the Bluff City loop, the third lap?


Austin: It’ll complete this lap, but then it'll get removed next lap, the final.


Art: Unless Wrench destroys it.


Austin: Right, if Wrench destroys it this turn, it won't even finish this part of the Bluff City loop.


Ali: Okay, sure, sure, sure.


Austin: There’s one more full lap.


Ali: Okay.


Austin: It won't complete it's big, weird, magical, super scientific sapping of these other two cities. It will leave them alive but damaged, basically, you know?


Ali: Okay. So, I’m gonna–


Austin: As a reminder, we've done the thing, which is the next thing in timeline is the Dream Askew game that we did as a Live, that we started as a Live and will wrap back around to this season in Bluff City, where like, yeah, there are people still there, and there is still great economic disparity. There are still casinos. There is still the upper crust. But mostly, it's abandoned and post apocalyptic, and like, I think we've kind of gotten there here pretty organically, in terms of that being the state that things will end up in after this, given that it got three laps of getting its special ability off, you know? 


Ali: Mm-hmm. 


Austin: But anyway, what are you going to do?


Ali: Yeah, I'm going to roll this slam straight. 


Austin: All right.


Ali: And then I'm going to use my Integrity for my blocking, and then…


Austin: That makes sense. All right, give me your roll. 


Ali: So that's a six. 


Austin: That's a six. It’s going to roll minus one, so I'm gonna burn an Integrity. No, I think they're happy to just roll it. Oh, they should have burned that one Integrity! [Ali and Sylvia laugh] They fail to do it. All right. Give me your– they rolled a five. They rolled a six minus one, instead of the six plus zero, which would have done it. Give me your, uh…was it one D6, right? 


Ali: That's a five. 


Austin: Ooh. Oooh. That's a lot of damage to take, but I think Absolute is going to take that damage rather than give up space. I think Absolute is that person, right? Absolute is the sort of driver to be like, “I won't give an inch. I'll take whatever hits you can throw at me. That's why I spent a little extra money on this armor,” you know?


Ali: Oh, it's damage or positon, and Absolute is like, yeah. 


Austin: It’s either– yeah. You always do that two damage on a successful slam. Then you do an additional one D6 damage, or they give up one more position. You slam them back one, basically. 


Ali: Mm-hmm. Okay, cool.


Austin: And in this case, they're taking the damage, which might be a mistake, but they go now.


Art: That’s how you imagine that? You imagine it's slamming them backwards and not them like hitting the brakes to not get hit harder? 


Austin: Uh…yeah, I guess you're probably right.


Art: I think this is a philosophical question. 


Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Art: I don't think there’s a right answer here.


Austin: Well, yeah. I think it's probably flexible so that we can narrate what makes more sense in a given situation, right? 


Art: Sure, yeah. 


Austin: In this case, they are gonna immediately try to just overtake you, Froggy. 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: And we'll see how that goes. Here is plus D6– or, sorry, D6 plus three, for their speed. Aw, bad roll. Only rolled a two. That's a five. What's your Integrity? 


Ali: Um…


Austin: Sorry, I meant: what's your Weight? 


Ali: My Weight is plus one, but I'm going to [Austin: “Okay”] make this a plus three, because I'm going to use two Integrity of my eight Integrity to…


Austin: There you go. Yeah, do it.


Ali: Yeah. Plus three is a nine.


Austin: And that's a success, which means you do now get that free counter attempt on the slam, right?


Ali: Yeah, and that's just a roll one D…


Austin: One D6 plus…


Art: Plus Weight.


Austin: Plus Weight again. 


Ali: Oh, plus Weight is…my Weight is–


Austin: Do you want to– are you Integrity-ing again?


Ali: I'm gonna make this a plus two, yeah. 


Austin: Okay. Damn. We're gonna have to narrate this whole little encounter. [Ali laughs] All right, so that is a…wait, I thought you said you were going to give it…how much Integrity did you spend there? Just one? 


Ali: Just one, yeah. 


Austin: Okay, okay, so you got a six. Okay.


Ali: Yeah, my Weight is plus one, and then one more Integrity is a plus two. 


Austin: Right, right. Which means you're going to succeed here, because they– oh, I guess that they could try to burn Integrity to overclock to try to counter you. Uh, boy. Yeah, they're gonna burn– on a tie–


Ali: Well, I’m slamming because it was an unsuccessful overtake, right? They don't have another…


Austin: They still roll to block. It’s just that you get a free extra slam attempt. 


Ali: Oh, okay. 


Austin: You see what I'm saying? It's not a free successful slam. 


Ali: Oh, sure, sure, sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, yeah. 


Austin: It’s just you get a– yeah. So they are going to try to block.


Art: But they’ve taken seven damage this round. They must be in…


Austin: Yeah, this is– they're not in good shape. [Ali laughs]


Art: And they need a seven. This is bad times. 


Austin: [sighs] Yeah, they have to burn…no, I think that the– ooh, this is a real gut check moment. They’re in– I'm just gonna tell you the numbers. Pluperfect has three Integrity left, and they have minus one on Weight. 


Art: So they need to spend two Integrity to have a chance at winning this roll.


Austin: To have a chance at winning this roll. [Ali laughs]


Art: And if they lose, they blow up.


Austin: They blow up. Right. And so, I think the…they have to swallow their pride. They’re a professional racer. They're just gonna roll it straight and take the L and then hope…I guess they're just gonna have to fall back, right? That's what they have to do here. [thoughtful sigh] No. No, they have too much pride. You know what? In a different world, in a world where they weren't just called a cheater on TV. [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: Oh no.


Austin: Where they would have– where their name was dragged in the mud and they said that you were a better racer, and now you're going to fucking beat them, Trip? No fucking way. They're going to spend the points.


Ali: Oh, well, Trip’s definitely winning this, so. [laughter] Sorry to them. 


Austin: All right, so that's gonna go up to…spending two points brings them up to a plus one, because they need to beat your six, right? 


Ali: Mm-hmm. That’s a four.


Austin: They do not beat your six. That's immediately down, so that's two damage, and that's enough to knock them off, right? Because they go down to one to get that overclock. Then they immediately take two damage from this. I mean, give me the one D6 anyway, Ali. Let's see how hard this hit was.


[2:00:09]


Ali: Sure. [laughs] 


Austin: All right, that’s a four. So yeah, you absolutely crush them. They are going to need to roll a D6, right? to see if they eject safely.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Oh, just barely, with a two! Last possible second. What's this look like, Ali? Tell me what this slam block/slam/looks like?


Ali: Yeah, I think it's the thing of like…the two of us are driving towards what is the like starting of a turn.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: And Froggy kind of moves, like sways their car a little bit to the right, to kind of get like higher ground, almost.


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: And then sort of bumps into Plu in that maneuver.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: And then, because it's like…I keep forgetting to describe this as like an up/down/left/right thing as well, because I keep forgetting that its gravity cars, [laughs quietly] but I think like, in the slam, sort of like lets their car sort of go a little bit higher, knowing that Plu is going to go for the advance on that.


Austin: Yeah. Yeah.


Ali: And then like, you know, cut to the interior car. 


Austin: Hell yeah. 


Ali: Froggy is like putting their like gravity slider down, so it like slams onto the top of Absolute Pluperfect’s car, [Austin: “Yeah”] as it like maneuvers underneath Froggy’s to get past it, and does not.


Austin: It does not. They go:


Austin (as Absolute): You're nothing but street trash. 


Austin: And like, then they gun the engine to try to just power past you, but I think like your magnetic hover stuff just lifts the top of the car out. Do you know what I mean? 


Ali: [laughs] Yeah. 


Austin: It just completely like rips. It's like, oh, you're driving a convertible now. You weren't a second ago.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: And just like the hood comes off.


Art: And now we get a closeup, and Froggy says, “It's trash day, baby.” [Ali and Art laugh]


Sylvia: I was trying to make a leap frog joke. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Oh, that’s good too. These are both good.


Sylvia: That’s what the announcers call it.


Art: If you have it, go for it. I'm not trying to box you out.


Sylvia: I was just saying it's like people calling the maneuver the Leap Froggy or something. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Oh. 


Austin (as Brobert): I can't believe they hit ‘em with the classic Leap Froggy! We haven't seen that maneuver all season.


Ali (as Jill): You know, we've been waiting for this Froggy to jump, [Austin and Sylvia laugh] and it's great to see that Froggy is finally willing to show their stuff on the field. 


Austin: And that's it. Absolute Pluperfect is out.


Ali: Wow.


Austin: I'm gonna say…this is pretty obvious. We're going to see a hold from Cameron Castle. It's going to be probably– or a block from Cameron Castle against an overtake from SC. Manages to do it, and now it's back around. It’s back around to the big question here, Trip: are you gonna be able to block this attempted… [Ali gasps] Is this a slam, at this point? I guess it is, right?


Art: I literally can't. 


Austin: You can't. You can’t do it.


Art: Yeah, plus five versus minus one. I automatically fail. 


Austin: You're gonna fail it. You're gonna fail it. Phew, that's brutal. 


Art: Yeah.


Austin: But is the slam the thing, or is it…? It knows it can't outrace you here, so yeah, I think it's gonna just–


Art: I mean…yeah.


Austin: It's gonna just try to run you over.


Art: I mean, on the other hand, overtaking me is their only chance. Oh, no, it doesn’t. 


Austin: No, it's done. It's done. 


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, I mean, I think it maybe would want to go as fast as it possibly can to try to outrace the magna-drones, but they're just going to be faster than it eventually, you know? So yeah, I think it's in destruction mode now. The wheels on the slot machine spin, and they come up “KILL.” Roll– oh my god, what's its Weight? Its Weight is five?


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Yikes. Hey, it rolled a one!


Art: So, if I sacrificed my last Integrity, I can have my car like blow up instead of get slammed?


Austin: I mean, what happens on a tie? 


Art: Higher position wins.


Austin: Higher position wins, so you would counter slam successfully is what you would do.


Art: Which they would get minus two Integrity. We would both blow up.


Austin: You would both blow up. Uh huh.


Art: They would like crash to the ground, and my car would explode. 


Austin: Right, uh huh. 


Art: On a one and six, which I guess is better than nothing.


Austin: Yeah. Better than nothing. 


Art: Better than the zero and six I have now. 


Austin: Uh huh. Let's see it.


Art: Um, I'm gonna Radical point that.


Austin: And you have a Radical point. Yeah, you should Radical point that one you rolled. [Sylvia laughs]


Art: Who cares if Trip Uncertainty doesn't make it out of this game, to be completely honest. 


Austin: Uh huh.


Art: Trip’s not coming back, no matter what. [Ali laughs quietly]


Austin: Uh huh. [quiet laughter] Oh, that’s a two. It’s not happening. All right. What are you–


Sylvia: A slightly better result. 


Austin: You try a fancy maneuver here. You try to like grind it up in its gears somehow, just to keep it from crushing you, or from moving forward instead of crushing you and moving forward, and it's unfortunately going to do it. You're gonna blow up. Give me your one D6 to see if you survive. That’s a six!


Art: There’s a six! Fucking hell.


Austin: One roll away!


Art: Well, let's all just remember that I did beat Absolute Pluperfect. In racing tradition, you DNF in the order that you don’t finish, so. 


Austin: That's true. Yeah, that's true. Uh huh. This puts Froggy in– no, that puts Tate in first place, [Ali laughs] with Froggy in second, Cameron in third right now. Phew, you are off the track, Trip, and both–


Art: And the disqualified people are behind me too, so, uh…


Austin: That’s true. That's true. 


Art: We're all gonna finish 18th or whatever. Or, no, 17th. Plu’s in…


Austin: Like 17th or something, yeah. Uh huh.


Art: I guess it depends, when do the disqualified people place? When they're removed or when they're disqualified?


Austin: Ooh. Probably when they're disqualified. That feels more…they're not gonna get an extra turn to jockey for position. Where you are when you get disqualified is where you are.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Art: All right, so it's 14th or whatever, I think. Yeah. 


Austin: Yeah. All right, Wrench. Oh.


Sylvia: I’m done. I'm disqualified, aren’t I?


Austin: This is– you have one more turn. This is the last maneuver you have before you get removed, right?


Sylvia: Oh. Do I want to just bonk this thing?


Austin: You could bonk this thing and end it end it.


Art: Or you could bonk Tate and really turn heel here. [Art and Sylvia laugh]


Austin: Yeah, you could bonk Tate and get Froggy the W.


Sylvia: Oh, wait! Tate’s in first?


Austin: Tate’s in first. But you did bonk Tate's…uh, you bonked Callista. You were not the person bonking Baby.


Sylvia: I'm thinking about it. [sighs thoughtfully] 


Ali: But do we want to knock out the Jackpot Supreme?


Sylvia: I feel like it makes more sense to get rid of that, just because…


Ali: Yeah.


Art: I did say it would be a heel turn.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: You did.


Sylvia: Yeah, I know. I heard you.


Art: Yeah.


Sylvia: I was still considering it with that in mind.


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: If we defeat the evil car, will the like lifeblood of the cities…?


Austin: No. [Ali laughs] No. 


Sylvia: No.


Ali: It won’t be dissipated back into the…


Austin: It will not be.


Sylvia: They just won’t be able to use it again. 


Art: Austin is not giving us a Dragon Ball ending here.


Ali: Ah.


Austin: No. No.


Sylvia: I’m gonna do it.


Austin: It’s already been dissipated. It's been mostly dissipated to Bluff City.


Ali: Sure.


Austin: Bigger and better everyday. That’s the slogan now for Bluff City, by the way.


Sylvia: Oh, wow. I'm spending two Integrity.


Austin: Okay.


Sylvia: And I’m gonna try and kill this thing.


Austin: All right. Let's see it.


Sylvia: I got an eight. 


Austin: Ooh. Ooh. All right. [Ali laughs] It straight up has no way to overclock here, because if it overclocks at all, it'll blow up, so it’s just going to do its regular D6 plus five and get a seven. One short.


Sylvia: Shit.


Austin: You toast it. What's it look like?


Sylvia: I'm behind it, right?


Austin: Yeah, you're behind it.


Sylvia: I feel like it's kind of like a weird inversion of the Leap Froggy, [Austin: “Oh”] where I go like underneath instead, where I just…


Austin: Oh.


Sylvia: I'm a little, like…I don't know how big this car is, I guess, in terms of like verticality.


Austin: You tell me.


Sylvia: But I think there's like just enough space for me to sort of like…when I get the bumpers right up against it and like hit the gas, it flips it practically. 


Austin: Mm-hmm. Love it. Love it.


Sylvia: I think there's something to do with like a turn that they’re coming on that lets this happen, but yeah.


Austin (as Brobert): She hit it with the old Monkey Wrench. [Sylvia snorts] That's not as good as a Leap Froggy, but I’m tryin’ my best out here, Jill. Tryin’ my best.


Ali (as Jill): And, you know, with a race like this, all this excitement, it gets harder in these old laps. But I will say, Brobert… [Ali laughs]


Austin (as Brobert): Yes, Jill?


Ali (as Jill): Which I knew was your name this whole time. [Ali and Austin laugh]


Austin (as Brobert): We’ve worked together for so long. How could you forget my name? 


Ali: What was I even saying? [laughs] 


Austin: I don't know. 


Austin (as Brobert): Don’t worry about it, Jill. 


Ali: You were saying the Monkey Wrench.


Austin: The Monkey Wrench. Yeah. 


Ali (as Jill): You know, one thing we know about Wrench: she knows her way around a car, and that includes–


Austin (as Brobert): She’s a mechanic.


Ali (as Jill): Includes knowing the weak spots.


Austin (as Brobert): Uh huh. In fact, you know, mechanics are famous for getting under cars to fix them. In this case, she got under the car to break it, [Sylvia laughs] to make it worse.


Ali (as Jill): Mm-hmm.


Austin (as Brobert): To unfix the car from the track and send it flying. 


Austin: I guess this AI needs to roll a one D6 to see if it survives. It does, just barely. “Beep beep boop boop boop, bwooong,” and then shuts down the side of the road.


Sylvia (as Wrench): Boop boop beep beep, motherfucker. [Austin and Ali laugh]


Austin: Don't give away more merch! [Sylvia laughs quietly] And then that is that round. At this point, I feel like we're just going to see…I don't think these– I guess the only thing that could happen is SC could try to overtake Cameron, but there's not enough time for these positions to change at all, in this final lap. I do want to give a couple more images though. Which is to say, I think we can just end it here, right? Froggy, Cameron's not going to try to pass you. I guess I could roll to see if SC manages to pass Cameron in the advance, but it's doubtful, because SC is so slow. But I think this is just– this just makes sense for me, in terms of race finish, is Tate in first place; Froggy, you in second place. 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Cameron in third place. There just isn't enough time for you to overtake into the lap, to be behind Tate and then try to overtake Tate. We would need two more laps for that, and I think SC is going to play it safe, happy with a fourth place finish, since Tate’s getting the first place. You know, I think that that's not…SC is not the person who's going to put his life out on the line like that, you know? 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: So, I think that ends up being the race. I do want to give you this, a couple things. One: the magna-drones that pick you up and take you off the course? Very nice, Wrench. [Ali laughs quietly]


Sylvia: Hell yeah.


Austin: Two: after the smoke clears and stuff, I think, Trip, we see you riding in the Tiger Bite Yellow. When you ejected, Tate reached up and grabbed you before you went off the course in an explosive way, [Ali gasps] because you kept your promise of racing fair and because Tate was right behind you that whole time, you know?


Art: Aw.


Sylvia: Aw.


Austin: So reached up, grabbed you with a real strong tiger arm, brought you back down. So you get to be in the first place car. 


Art: That’s great.


Austin: You don't win this race, [Art: “No”] but you're right there, you know? [Ali laughs]


Art: No, I came in 13th, but it's fine.


Austin: [laughs] Aw, you came in first in my heart, you know? 


Art: Yeah. And I helped. I guess I didn't really end up helping. Oh, I did help, [Austin: “Yeah”] because the pass was what used all the Integrity that let us destroy the thing. Yeah, okay.


Austin: Yeah. Exactly, exactly. And again, you have to think about all that as jockeying and slamming into one another and speeding past each other and pushing the engine too hard, and the engine starting to burn, and fire’s coming out the exhaust. But you did it, and you get back to Bluffington, and you get the sense that something bad has happened but not as bad as it could have been, right? The sort of– by the time you get back, you know, the stands seem a little emptier than they were. The people watching are…in some ways, the ones at the track are richer than before, because they have become even more kind of outsiders coming to kind of plunder whatever's left of Bluff City—or, sorry, Bluffington—and use it as just like a resort and nothing else, no longer treating it as a city of its own right. And also poorer, as you see like a group of kids watching from behind, you know, a chain link fence, no parents in sight. You know, the local community here continuing to be destroyed by a lack of infrastructure and investment and care and local leadership and all that other stuff. But it could be worse, and Ronnie is here to congratulate you all with a bunch of flowers from the florist shop. A big wreath for you, Froggy, a second place wreath. A sort of robot wreath for you, Wrench, and also, I think maybe finally gets to drive– I think you come back, and Ronnie is in his car, drives it up and gives you the keys, Wrench, to be like:


Sylvia (as Wrench): [excited gasp]


Austin (as Ronnie): If you want to take it around for a spin, you could do that. 


Sylvia (as Wrench): Oh, I thought you were giving it to me. This is fine too. I get, um…yeah! [Ali laughs]


Austin (as Ronnie): No, it's my car. I can't…


Sylvia (as Wrench): Eh.


Austin (as Ronnie): I gotta go to work in it.


Sylvia (as Wrench): I don't know what your situation is like.


Austin (as Ronnie): I don't have it like that. I could…I got a little bit of money to give you guys for, you know, the job, but I’m not giving away a car.


Sylvia (as Wrench): Okay, cool. So, I'm gonna go drive your car for a little while now. Bye.


Austin (as Ronnie): Have fun. Trip, I just want to say I really appreciate the sacrifice you made.


Art (as Trip): Yeah, no problem. Um…yeah.


Austin (as Ronnie): And hey, I think, at this point, no one will have any doubt about you and Pluperfect, in terms of who's the better driver, who's the better person.


[2:15:00]


Art (as Trip): Yeah, I hope so. Yeah, who has the most integrity vis a vis taking people's phones.


Austin: [laughs quietly] Unfortunately, you both have the same amount of Integrity vis a vis your car, which is none anymore. But. 


Art: Yeah, I think this might be a career for Trip.


Austin (as Ronnie): You mean this is it for you? No more racing?


Art (as Trip): Yeah. I think it might be. I mean, it seems like getting another car together would be a big deal, and…I didn't check the rules on this, but like, this sort of feels like a good end there. Helped save some people, maybe. 


Austin (as Ronnie): Yeah.


Art (as Trip): Depending on what we think would have happened if we just all the way lost. [laughs] 


Austin (as Ronnie): This place would be an absolute terrible shithole beyond any of our wildest dreams?


Art (as Trip): Yeah.


Austin: I think it would be completely empty. What would have happened is I would have shifted– this is Austin speaking. I would have shifted the what-do-you-call-it game, the Dream Askew game to be happening during this race, versus after it, and the after would have been that Bluffington Beach and Atlantic City were literally empty. It was a ghost town, completely abandoned to time, like so many, you know, ghost towns of old; just driven to nothing, everyone leaves, you know? Et cetera. So.


Austin (as Ronnie): I think you did a good job.


Art (as Trip): Yeah. So maybe it's good enough.


Austin (as Ronnie): And Froggy. Second place.


Ali (as Froggy): Yeah.


Austin (as Ronnie): No one can say you're just a street racer anymore. 


Ali (as Froggy): Yeah. 


Austin (as Ronnie): You were Most Improved last race, and this one you took home the silver. You gonna keep racing?


Ali (as Froggy): I think so, yeah. It's all coming together. And, you know, the people out on this track, you can't account for them, and racing needs–


Ali: [laughs] I don't know what I’m saying. 


Ali (as Froggy): The integrity of racing…


Art: No, keep going. Keep going, yeah.


Austin: Oh, I see, yeah.


Ali (as Froggy): Needs to be… [Ali laughs]


Austin: Uh huh?


Ali (as Froggy): Protected. 


Austin (as Ronnie): Right.


Ali (as Froggy): It needs to be maintained.


Austin (as Ronnie): Right.


Ali (as Froggy): And there needs to be true racers on the track, not people out there with other motives, people out there…


Austin (as Ronnie): Mm. Except for saving the city by destroying a big tank. That's a good motive.


Ali (as Froggy): That's not another motive. That's a protection of the integrity of racing!


Austin (as Ronnie): I'm in agreement with you, 100%. It's just like Alan Jackson says in his hit song “Chattahoochee”. [laughter] Talkin’ about cars and dreamin’ about women. 


Ali (as Froggy): Yeah.


Sylvia (as Wrench): Amen to that, brother.


Austin (as Ronnie): Never had a plan, just livin’ for the minute. 


Ali (as Froggy): You know?


Austin (as Ronnie): Mm-hmm. Yeah, way down yonder on the Chattahoochee. Never knew how much that muddy water meant to me, but I learned how to swim, and I learned who I was. A lot about living, and a little ‘bout love.


Art (as Trip): And a little ‘bout love.


Ali (as Froggy): Mm-hmm. And I love this city. I love all three of these cities! You can't be sipping up their juice in your fancy car. [all laugh]


Art (as Trip): Can't be sipping up their juice. 


Sylvia (as Wrench): You can’t. You really–


Austin (as Ronnie): You can’t.


Sylvia (as Wrench): You gotta let the juice be.


Austin (as Ronnie): You gotta let the juice be.
[music: “Engines on the Track”]