Bluff City 28.5: Extracurricular: Out Of Time Extended Last Time On
Transcriber: happierstories#8865


ALI: Hi everybody, it's Ali Acampora, and um... In, a little bit after this (giggles) a new episode of Bluff City is gonna release, but because there's been... Because we're in the middle of an arc, and because there's been such a gap between episode, I thought we'd just sort of record like, an extended Last Time On? So for people who were listening to it concurrently when it was being released and is now listening to the next episode has some more details filled it. I thought it might be easier to do this seperate, so like, if, two months from now, or two years from now, someone's like, Oh, I'm just listening to Bluff City season 2! And all of the episodes are just there sitting there for them, they aren't going to need this recap as much? Which is why this post is going to self destruct at some point. But for everybody who's current and for who's logged on on November 16th, 2020 to listen to the next Bluff City episode, let's just kinda talk openly about what the Capers arc has been and what has sort of happened so far! So when you hit play, it'll be fresh in your mind.


So, just to start with the basics, in this arc we are playing Capers, designed by Craig Campbell, which is a "superpowered game of gangsters in the Roaring Twenties"! It's like a card based system where we have chosen powers and a lot of the skill checks are based on like, What's your skill in this, and that determines how many cards you draw. And we do indeed have some superheroes here. Art and Janine are playing with me, revising [reprising?] their roles as Elena Flores and Chanti Park, also known as the Champ and Grouse from our previous playthough of Masks in the first season of Bluff City. And I am playing Caitlin Key, also known as Verge. 


The game is set in Blough City, the alternate Bluff City that's all fucked up, and... you know, bad. Um (laughs). And our dear Bluff City superheroes are here. The situation with that is that they were investigating some sort of import project at a dock in Bluff City, fell into what we think is a tunnel, uh, "tunnel" is a word that might stay in your mind as you listen to this arc, and ended up in Blough City, sort of, you know, out of town and out of touch, and not knowing what was going on. My character, Caitlin Key, is a superhero who also runs a speakeasy that's sort of like a safe haven for people who have superpowers in Blough City, and also just where you can get-- a drink? The-- we kind of leaned on the 1920s vibe of the game for this, and, uh, the situation in Blough City now is, you know, sort of... post the end of season 1 of Bluff City there was this big revolutionary parade and, you know people thought it was going to be a real turn. Gail Green and Hector Hu were leading this revolution that we have now seen, in current Blough City, has been stomped out, and things are actually way worse than they were the last time we saw Blough City. Uh, so it's tough!


Caitlin, being in the position that she's in where she's sort of running this illegal bar, has also put herself in the position where she does work sometimes for the Whitakers, a name you might remember from being kind of a shitty (laughs) mafia family in the first season of Bluff City. Here, we find them in the situation where they have hired Caitlin to investigate what's going with a police shooting that their son was tied up in. The situation that we know and that the characters know so far is that... 


Hollis Whitaker, who's sort of the rich boy... the rich shitty boy and his friend, Horseface, were called out to a field to go fix a water pump that wasn't working. They went and they fixed it, and they had some bottles of water for some reason? And they were like, "Okay, cool, it's fixed, we're gonna go," left, got pulled over by the police, yadda yadda yadda, and then some police are killed. Three whole police are killed! And that's sort of what we're getting to the bottom of to take the heat off of Hollis Whitaker. And also just kinda seeing what's going on with this whole tunnel, and the whole thing, it's kinda fucked up, the (giggles) That is the task for our heroes today.


First, we questioned Hollis, just to get a sense of like, what-- happened. What is the basics of this situation. He described what I just described... water pump, pulled over, cops got shot, nobody knows what happened, because there was like a weird cloud and he thinks there might have been some sort weird superhero activity. Weird. And then he gave us the name of his friend, Horseface, who we found in a crate on the docks where he was, on purpose, because he was hiding. While pursuing him, our heroes were followed by the police, a specific anti-superhero section of the police referred to as the Mist PD. But we've, (chuckles) we've managed to avoid him thus far.


Brought Horseface back to Caitlin's bar, which is located in a hotel called the Grand Canary. Questioned him for a little bit. He didn't really give a ton more information, but sort of filled in a little bit more of what that night was. And then as Caitlin, Chanti, and Elena found themselves as, you know, the night winding down, Chanti decided that she wanted to go to one of Gail Green's like, fancy society parties. 


Gail Green, who you might remember is also a superhero, or was a superhero at one point. She was like a super famous-- She was like Bluff City's Superman, basically. And then was like, "I have to go back home, they need me there." The gap that she left was significant to Grouse and the Champ while they were superheoes in Bluff City, and also, Grouse herself is actually a mentor to Gail Green's ex?-girlfriend? (laughs) So that's sort of tough, and also makes sense, why she would be like, "Hey, I gotta go talk to Gail Green." 


When we find Gail Green, she is not doing too well. And doesn't seem fully herself in the scenes that we see her in. Austin describes her as being like, not 100% present, but in a way that... Chanti is able to recognize, but Gail isn't, and then further through that conversation, she is aware of the gap there, but is... very disconnected from who she used to be, in a way that's like, very noticeable, and very concerning. Chanti and Elena, being very careful not to upset her more, sort of fill in the details of being like, "yeah, we know somebody you used to know," but (laughs) it's a very awkward conversation to have with somebody, so it kind of doesn't go great. And that was our last episode.


We're coming back on me attempting to roll to be Charming and Personable with a woman named... Alexandra Hughes, who is a name that we recognized because she had written a letter to Hollis Whitaker that we found in his room. So. What's going on with that? More information about her is incoming in this arc, but, we're gonna come back on this failed roll and then see what happens. Bluff City! (laughs)


Okay, so I hope-- I hope this helped a little bit. I hope that it's not more confusing. I really thank everybody from the bottom of my heart for their patience with this. I'm really glad to be releasing more Bluff City, and you know, a big rollout of more Patreon stuff is incoming. So yeah, just keep an eye out, and enjoy, and thank you, so sosososo much.


(MUSIC: Extracurricular: Out of Time)


And have a good night, and enjoy um... Bluff City Extracurricular (fumbles) Extracurricular: Out of Time! Bye!!


(music plays out)