Eyes of A Killer 03
Transcriber: logan !
Recap        1
0:01:25 - Introduction & Characters        3
0:15:34 - Setting Updates        10
0:29:15 - Timeskip        19
0:42:32 - First Card (Act II)        26
0:58:38 - Third Card        37
1:16:15 - Fifth Card        50
1:35:25 - Eighth Card        62
1:51:54 - Eleventh Card        72
Recap
[“Eyes of a Killer” by Jack de Quidt begins playing]
Sylvia: We gotta stick together. 
Dre: We sure do, until the very end. And then I’m gonna push you off a bridge or something.
Sylvi: Sorry, what was that?
Dre: Nothing.
Sylvi: Okay.
Keith: [chuckles]
Sylvia: Who was the Knife to you before the incident?
Keith: I was jealous from a distance of Caldera’s proximity to wealth despite being a Dormant like me.
Sylvia: Basalt constantly showed her up at social functions, arriving with Mosie and acting as if he still had the influence that comes from a functioning mountain.
Art: Caldera committed a petty crime once. That was enough.
Dre: My secret lover.
Keith: Whoa.
Sylvi: Love it.
Dre (as Basalt): Uh, how long was your sentence supposed to be?
Sylvi (as Slate): [chuckles] Oh. Um, did they give you a time? 
Dre (as Basalt): Yeah.
Sylvi (as Slate): ‘Cause for me, it was just— bye!
Dre (as Basalt): Oh it’s… five years?
Sylvi (as Slate): Ohhh! Oh they told you that one, huh? Yeah, they’re not coming back, kid.
Art: They start to do it.
Sylvia: Actually start piecing things together?
Art: Yeah, they start working leads—
Dre: [suggestively] Then they start piecing things together. 
Art: —and maybe Mosie is good at filling in the problems that Magoo has, and Magoo is a police, so has like, a badge or whatever, that’s gotta help.
Sylvia: Just enough resources to actually start like, getting in places?
Keith: And if I can add maybe one thing, we can see how we feel about— maybe this was not a very well executed conspiracy!
[music ends]
0:01:25 - Introduction & Characters
Sylvia: Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast focused on critical worldbuilding, smart characterization, and fun interaction between good friends. I’m your host for today, Sylvia Bullet, continuing our Slow Knife game for our lovely patrons. With me today, is Andrew Lee Swan.
Dre: Hey! You can find me on Twitter @Swandre3000.
Sylvia: Art Martinez-Tebbel.
Art: Hey. You can find me wherever people are plotting against Moby.
Sylvia: Ooh. That’s - he’s - you’re - he’s not your Knife, you’re the Knife to Moby’s Conspirator.
Art: Yeah, I’m Moby’s Knife.
Keith: Let’s hope you’re a fast Knife, for your sake. [Art groans] 
Sylvia: And that other voice, that final voice is Keith J. Carberry.
Keith: Hi, my name is Keith J. Carberry, I am the final voice, [Sylvia laughs] you can find me on X.com and cohost.org @KeithJCarberry. And you can find the Let’s Plays that I do at youtube.com/RunButton where me and Kyle are trying to finally get started the thing that we've been wanting to do for a really long time, which is make a Let's Play —  20 years of Sonic remastered Let's Play. We’re remastering our own Let’s Play, we’re remaking it, this is uh, it’s the 2020s and uh, it’s all remakes and remasters so that's what we're doing. 
Sylvia: That's so funny. 
Art: The final voice is a… a Keith thing, yeah. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: The final voice is really good. The second I said it I was like, Keith is gonna repeat this as a bit. Um, you can also get the music that you're here to the beginning of the show and anything else featured on Friends at the Table at notquitereal.bandcamp.com. Uh, you can check out the Twitch at twitch.tv/friendsatthetable. 
Art: Go buy a shirt at friendsatthetable.shop. 
Sylvia: friendsatthetable.shop is a very important link because —
Keith: Buy two shirts. 
Sylvia: Yeah, buy three shirts. 
Keith: Leave a tip. 
Art: And there's non-shirt things too if you'd like. 
Sylvia: Yeah, buy a hat. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Sylvia: So it's been a minute since we last recorded this, just to sort of like, give everyone a peek behind the curtain. So I figured it would be helpful to sort of go over both like the broad strokes of our setting here and also like, what our characters deals are. I'll go first and give like, broad strokes stuff. This game takes place on an island that is, uh, full of volcanoes and runs on — the lava is their money and they love…well, they don't love the lava necessarily, but some of them do. We have two classes of people, the nobles who are known as the ‘Born Warm’ and then the ‘Laze’ who are the people who are like, the laborers—
Keith: That’s so funny.
Sylvia: —yeah, I know, it's really good. You came up with it! 
Keith: I know, I still like it. [Art laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah, okay, you were just like —
Art: Keith’s like, my ideas are so good. 
Keith: Yeah, hey look, all of our ideas are good, but just, the first idea that I'm hearing is my own, I’m remembering it. 
Art: Whereas I was looking at our thing and the one that caught my eye is, ‘Magoo is derived from Magma Goo.’ [everyone laughs] That was probably not at our top ten ideas... 
Sylvia: [laughing] No, it's not, but that was really important to me that we wrote that down.
Keith: It is!
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: Hey, listen, Mack Magoo is an important character. We will get to — [chuckling] I almost called him just straight up Mr. Magoo. [Dre laughs] Officer Magoo.
Art: I like that his full name is, is Mack Magma Goo. [Sylvi laughs] It’s a horrible thing to say. 
Sylvia: There is also a term that's important to this considering our Knife who is the character that will be extracting revenge on us, uh, there’s the Dormant who are people who were Born Warm, like did have a family volcano, which is a great thing to say, um, but it went Dormant so they don't have lava anymore and that makes them not necessarily the lower caste, but also like, kind of not accepted among the higher caste.  Our Knife, Basalt Caldera, [pronounced BAY-salt], uh Basalt? [pronounced BASS-alt] I can’t remember how we were saying it. 
Keith: Basalt. [BASS-alt] 
Sylvia: Okay. Was one of these Dormants who found a new vein. He's a geologist with big beautiful peepers, that's written on a note here, I want to make sure we mentioned that. He's like a geologist-slash-surveyor who found a new vein of magma and was like all poised to sort of like make a big comeback and restore his family status before we framed him for the murder of Dre’s character's dad and exiled him to an island. I wrote mainland which is wrong. Um, to a desert island, where he met a weird old man who showed him how to hunt named Slate, who was exiled there years ago. We got some of them like sort of doing survivalist — survivalism stuff. Uh, and then the last thing that happened was a Chief Inspector Crust was onto the sort of like framing situation because Officer Mack Magoo along with Mosie, the best friend of Caldera, were looking into things and then Crust also caught onto some stuff. So he got exiled, and I think that was the last thing that happened. Those are sort of all the broad stroke non-player characters, would anybody like to introduce their lovely Conspirator? I need to take a drink of water, so one of you has to do something. [laughs]
Art: Alright, my Conspirator is Claxton Cascade, the chief of police who is um, you know, pretty involved in the many attempts to frame someone for murder, it helps when you have that. Yeah, and they're just like an annoying reformist-slash-incrementalist, who uh…yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. I think you got a medal or award of some kind last time we played. 
Dre: Ooh, that sounds right. 
Keith: Oh, maybe for solving that fake murder that you set up.
Sylvia: Yeah, I think so. And then I think you were like, dissatisfied or something like that. It's been a minute since I listened to the recording. But. 
Keith: I also remember, shocking that the, that the uh, crime that you orchestrated, getting a medal for that was not satisfying. 
Art: And I was responsible for, for exiling Chief Inspector Crust. 
Sylvia: Yes. 
Keith: Yeah. Right. 
Sylvia: And you also assigned Officer Magoo to the case.  
Keith: Uh, does Magoo have a partner? Who’s Magoo’s partner? 
Sylvia: Magoo is just working with Mosie right now. Magoo doesn't have an actual partner. 
Keith: Magoo and Mosie, right.
Sylvia: Mosie is the sort of rich but untalented artist that, um…
Keith: Basalt’s, uh, friend.
Sylvia: Basalt’s bestie. Yeah. [cross] Keith, are you good to — 
Keith: [cross] Uh, my - oh, I wasn’t sure if Art was done.
Sylvia: You read my mind. Yeah.
Keith: My character’s name is Sanidine Vug. Sanidine is a snitch and an instigator and an informant and a general lowlife rat. He's a multi-generational Dormant. 500 years have passed since the last member of, since the first member of his family to go Dormant. And he holds a wicked grudge against Basalt, um, for still being able to kind of move in the upper crust in a way that over time the Vugs have, y’know, become integrated with the, what are they called, the lower class?
Sylvia:  Oh, the Laze? 
Keith: The Laze, yes. And, and so they've been, the reason that they're an informant and a general lowlife rat is that their family is trying to like, curry favor with the upper crust to try to get back into their good graces and become come a Born Warm again, get a new family volcano, which is what he jealously notices that Basalt is doing with his like, underground research thing that he's doing with Mosie, and was part of the conspiracy to get…was I part of the conspiracy to get that person, um, exiled?
Sylvia: Who?
Keith: Whoever was at…the Inspector. 
Sylvia: I don't know, maybe?
Keith: I can’t remember. 
Sylvia: Um, if we want to, if it's not true, and we want to roll with it anyway, we can. 
Keith: I remember mentioning that it would make sense for Vug to work with, um, Claxton. 
Sylvia: Yeah, I do remember that. Like I know that you two worked together. 
Keith: I don't remember if that panned out. 
Sylvia: But I don't know if...yeah. 
Keith: Anyway, I definitely know about it. I'm in this conspiracy. I'm a full, I’m a partner in this.
Sylvia: Yeah, you're a full-blown conspirator. Uh-huh. Um...Dre, do you want to go next? 
Dre: Sure, I can. I'm playing Eliza Cinder — 
Sylvia: Sorry, Keith, are you done? 
Keith: Uh, yeah. I think I hit everything. 
Sylvia: Okay. I thought so, but I shoulda checked first. My bad. 
Keith: Yeah yeah, it’s okay. 
Sylvia: Okay, great, go ahead. 
Dre: Are we just doing like, broad recap stuff? 
Sylvia: Yeah, give like, a recap of stuff that you think is important. If you have any like, any turns that stood out to you are always good to mention because the more stuff that we have in our mind, that's great. 
Dre: Well, I'm playing Eliza Cinder. She is a very smart, ambitious, and self-made business woman who used to date Basalt, our Knife, and then I realized, no he’s soft, and he's making me soft, and he's making my dad soft, so I'm gonna kill my dad [Sylvia chuckles] so that I don't lose my inheritance and then I'm gonna frame it on my boyfriend. 
Sylvia: Yeah. Your like, secret boyfriend too. 
Keith: No making my dad soft. 
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. You stop softening my dad right now!
Dre: [laughs] Eugh. Well, okay. [Sylvia laughs] Gosh, what else? I genuinely am having trouble remembering what our turns were last time. [laughs] 
Keith: Yeah, we meant to go, we meant to record this three weeks ago, I think was our first time scheduling this, but we had a couple things that got in the way… 
Sylvia: Every time we've tried to record this, one of us gets hit by some sort of like, not necessarily calamity, but that's the word that came to mind. 
Keith: We get Slow Knifed. 
Sylvia: We do get Slow Knifed. We get Slowed. We have a debuff on. So please be gracious with us when we try to remember things. 
Art: And they tried to get us today, I got an unforecasted freak thunderstorm, just minutes before we started recording. 
Sylvia: It’s like divine intervention, trying to keep us from talking about our cool lava land. 
Dre: Our cool game. Yeah. Um, I forget when I marked this, but I do have it marked that my ambition is now to find out how to totally automatize larvae harvesting and processing. 
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre: I’m sick of all these people! 
Keith: There was a highway plan too, right? What was that?
Sylvia: Yes. That is part of my very dumb character who I will…Dre, do you have anything else or should I…? 
Dre: No, go for it. 
Sylvia: Okay, my character is Gabrielle Feldspar who is the heiress to the zeppelin  transports that are the island’s main way of traveling both between the spires of the mountains and also off the island. Her genius idea is — oh actually, I'll get to the idea last. First, her motivation, she didn't like Basalt because, she just thought he was like, she didn't like being upstaged at parties is the main thing. He was a little too interesting, carried the conversation just a little bit too much. So that's why she was on board with getting rid of him. Dre’s characters, but a rumor that me and Basalt were involved romantically, was not true, but, y’know. I guess there's no teamwork in backstabbing, huh? We all betray one person and everybody decides we can't be friends anymore.
Keith: There's no we in knife. 
Dre: Yeah, I'm still helping, you just don't understand how I'm helping. 
Sylvia: Hmm. Anyway, my involvement in the conspiracy was I planted the knife that was used to convict basically. My big ambition, because I want to be seen as equal to my grandfather who built this zeppelin like, network and stuff, is trying to build bridges to take the workers to different mountains and work sites without, um, so the upper class people don't have to deal with them on the airships. What could go wrong? 
0:15:34 - Setting Updates
Keith: I think it's a great idea. 
Sylvia: I think, yeah, it's wonderful. So, is that everything we should go over beforehand? We do also have a name for this place, Keith, could you say it again because I need to write it down.
Keith: Oligo. 
Sylvia: Oligo. O-L-E-G-O? 
Keith: O-L-I-G-O. 
Sylvia: O-L-I-G-O, even better. Yeah, so the isle of Oligo is where this takes place. We have a name now. [mumbling] Oh, that's so small, why’d I type that so small…Boom. I like it because it also kind of sounds like a toddler saying ‘illegal’. 
Keith: That's Oligo! 
Sylvia: That's Oligo! [Dre chuckles] So, last time we wrapped on the end of the Ashes act. That's the first act of the game. Today we're going to jump straight into Vines, thankfully, to just get us back in the swing of things, the start of act cards are always everybody answers. So we can all just sort of like feel things out on this one and get back in the flow of things and then after that I think if, I'm gonna just go by the order we have on Discord because I know that order is gonna stay static. [chuckles] Because we think Dre went last time, Keith, you're gonna have the first card prompt after this.
Keith: Okay. I thought we all answered the first one. 
Sylvia: We all answered this first one, yeah, but then…
Art: Then you’ll do the second one.
Keith: Sure.
Sylvia: Then — yeah, when we start rotating you'll do first like, yeah. I think that's how it works. So, this first card: As their stars rise, our Conspirators relocate to the center of power. Everyone answers: How does your influence grow with your move? 
Art: So like a global center? 
Sylvia: It doesn't…it doesn’t necessarily have to be a global center of power, because we've set stuff on Oligo pretty exclusively, it could just be the center of power on this island. 
Art: I'm sorry, I meant do we all go to the same center of power.
Sylvia: Oh, um, I don't necessarily think it's like that. Like I don't think we're all joining the — I mean we all, we could all join like, the city council or whatever like, that could be how… 
Keith: This would be like moving to DC. [Art laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah, a little bit. 
Keith: Not necessarily getting elected to the Senate.
Art: But are we sharing a house in DC? [Keith laughs] 
Sylvia: Well, no, because we are, we are getting more influence, you know? So it isn't just moving to DC. It's implied that we're, there's some… 
Keith: Well the influence, I think this implies that the influence is, uh, is geographical. And so, because we've gotten some influence, it will help us by literally being all in the same place. So then we can be interacting.
Sylvia: Okay. This works for me. I have an idea. 
Keith: Okay. 
Sylvia: Just like, what if there's just like one, what if we just, everyone moved to the biggest volcano? [Keith laughs] Like straight up. What if that's the where, like the, like… 
Art: And it's got a big skull on the side.
Sylvia: I mean…that'd be cool…that'd be pretty epic…I don't know…
Keith: Whose volcano is it?
Sylvia: Um, well, this is where we decide if we want to have an actual like, king figure anywhere because I was going to be like, well, this could be like the Oligo, like Mount Oligo. But it doesn't necessarily have to be that like, they're still…like, it could be the way the king is now where he doesn't really do anything other than take his potions for his butt cancer. 
Keith: He has the biggest — he has the biggest volcano. 
Sylvia: Yeah. But he's still got the biggest volcano. 
Dre: I was really confused that we had created a character that did that, but then… 
Sylvia: No, that's real life. 
Keith: [laughing] But then you remembered that’s real life!
Art: You don’t remember king butt cancer? 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Art: Um. Really on one with that name. Kind of insensitive frankly. Um... 
Sylvia: Eh. It’s pronounced Büttcancere, but um…[everyone laughs]
Dre: [laughing] Stupid…
Sylvia: [laughing] Thank you! [everyone catches their breath] I didn't finish writing ‘deserted island’ so I wrote ‘exiled to a desert’ on the note, that's not true! 
Dre: Okay, all right, so we're all going to this big volcano. 
Sylvia: Yeah. If everyone’s down with that.
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah! 
Sylvia: I do kind of like the idea that Gabrielle has like, bought her way into being the minister of transportation or something. That she's the Pete Buttigieg of whatever fucking government is going on here. [Dre laughs]
Art: Oh my god.
Sylvia: [laughing] Sorry!
Art: I really appreciate our conviction to not having anyone be the least bit likable.
Sylvia: [cross] I — it’s — Exactly! Exactly!
Keith: [cross] It’s in the rules.
Sylvia: I know the assignment.
Art: It’s not in the rules that we had to be Pete Buttigieg. [Keith and Sylvia laugh] That's not, I reread the rulebook today, it said —
Keith: It said ‘someone must be Buttigieg’. 
Sylvia: [laughing, singing “High Hopes” by Panic! At the Disco]
Art: You could, you could be a less annoying kind of evil. 
Keith: Um, I think, uh, so we're not set on the king thing. 
Sylvia: We're not. Like, I want to decide on stuff like that like, collaboratively. 
Dre: Sure sure sure.
Art: No, I sort of like that there's this like, extraordinarily opulent transportation palace with a zeppelin hangar 30 stories tall and yeah, we all just sort of meet there and Claxton brings a thousand police, and it’s this real dystopian…
Sylvia: Oh my god. You've got the new city police there. 
Art: Yeah. 
Sylvia: You've got the militarized police. 
Keith: [chuckles] Okay, um. So there's just... In my, I'm thinking of like, you know, these horrible rich jerks with their stupid volcano palaces. And imagining that they wouldn't all want to go, unless there was a king making them do it, they wouldn't all want to go to like someone else's volcano to work. [Sylvia: That’s true.] Because they're like no, we all have our own castles, we’re like dukes and stuff. So I was looking up, um, what…I was looking at volcano stuff like I've been doing every second of playing this game. 
Sylvia: Hell yeah! This is, like, the most Bill Nye the Science Guy type episode we've ever done on Friends at the Table and really hope people enjoy all the geological facts. There will be a music video rap parody at the end, some sort of 90s jam about all this.
Keith: [chuckles] So there's uh, I found this table, a volcano table, it just lists every volcano and the type of volcano that it is. [Sylvia: Hell yeah.] And there's, um, this is the same, like a caldera, that's a kind of volcano, that's on here, there’s caldera volcanoes on here. Some of the other ones: stratovolcano, um, shield volcanoes, but then I made note of two, the tuff ring, T-U-F-F, tuff ring. [Sylvia: Okay…] And the cinder cone. [Art: Ooh…] And basically these are like big, uh, basically one of them is, the cinder cone[1] is at the top of a mountain and the tuff ring[2] is like, what if the volcano is basically at ground level? [Sylvia: Yes.] But they create these like big, kind of sloped valleys, here I'll get, um, pictures…
Sylvia: Yeah, I got a couple pictures here…
Dre: Ooh… 
Keith: And so I was thinking like, what if this is a — oh, yeah, great, great pictures. [Sylvia giggles] I was thinking like, okay we've got a neutral zone at the cinder cone…
Art: The second picture is the Dune popcorn bucket. You can't fool me. [Dre laughs]
Keith: I do not know what this is. Dune popcorn? Is there a special Dune… 
Sylvia: You dune not know what it is?
Dre: Wait. No, we can't.
Art: [cross] Oh, okay, full stop. 
Dre: [cross] We can't. We will talk about this for an hour.
Art: No, I want to hear Keith see the Dune popcorn bucket. 
Keith: Is it real or is it…? 
Dre: It’s real.
Art: Oh, it's real, and it's spectacular. 
Sylvia: I got it. [laughing]
Dre: Oh yeah? Are you going to show us from your personal collection, Art? 
Art: I don't, I don't have one. 
Sylvia: I put it in the, it's in the chat. 
Keith: Excuse me? 
Sylvia: [laughs] Yeah. 
Art: Go to Dune — you can't buy these, they're completely sold out. But this, if you had gone to Dune 2, you could have bought this bucket of popcorn. 
Keith: I could have. 
Art: And put your whole hand right in there. 
Dre: Yeah, your whole hand. 
Keith: Your whole hand. 
Sylvia: I don’t like it.
Keith: Jesus Christ. 
Sylvia: Yeah, I'm with you, Keith. 
Keith: You could start up an animal husbandry business with this thing. [Sylvia and Art laugh]
Dre: You know what, I'm glad we showed Keith. You were right. You were right. We needed this.
Art: By the time anyone hears it's gonna be extremely old news, but... 
Sylvia: Whatever, that line's gonna make it worth it. 
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: Um, I do really like that the…what was the other, I got the tuff ring, what was the other one? 
Keith: The cinder cone and the tuff ring. The thing about the cinder cone is that it's like higher up, it looks like. [Sylvia: Oh yeah.] So I like the, I was just sort of thinking of the idea that this sort of valley that it creates, which is technically integrated into the volcano, is somewhere you where you could build up infrastructure, like… 
Sylvia: I really like that. A lot actually. The sort of like, for people listening, it is basically like a mountain with a big — it’s kind of like the cartoon volcano image if you really think about it, [cross] with the crater in the middle.
Dre: [cross] Yeah, it super is.
Sylvia: But um, like the scale of these is massive. Um, yeah. I think a city being built in the crater part of this mountain would go kinda crazy.
Keith: These are — by the way, I don't know if anyone has, has found this out, uh, but volcanoes are like, beautiful. 
Sylvia: Oh yeah, absolutely! 
Keith: Look at that! This is like a lake inside a volcano crater. 
Sylvia: Wait, holy shit, is that the like, secret thing that makes this place still like, really important? Is that the like, water is here too?
Keith: Oh yeah, like very pure mountaintop water. 
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Dre: And it's really warm, it's like hot springs. 
Keith: Yeah, yeah. 
Sylvia: Okay, wait, I gotta make sure we're writin’ this down. 
Keith: Nothing I love more than, uh, seat of your pants geology. 
Sylvia: [cross] We're good with calling this Mount Oligo, right?
Dre: [cross] Yes.
Keith: [cross] It’s been very fun to half learn or maybe tenth learn a bunch of rock facts. 
Dre: Rock faaacts.
Sylvia: It's so much fun to have an approximate knowledge of things. 
Dre: [whispering] Rock facts.
Keith: [repeating the first syllable like a heavily edited radio DJ bump] R-R-R-R-Rock facts. 
Dre: Whoa. 
Keith: Whoa?
Dre: Well, just the way you did it. 
Keith: Oh, yeah. 
Dre: It sounded like, edited. 
Keith: I know. I don't know how I did that. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: You're a professional Keith.
Keith: I just came up with that right now. 
Dre: Were you like, shaking your cheeks around? 
Keith: Uh, I was sort of tapping my mouth. 
Dre: Okay.
Keith: [he perfectly replicates the noise] R-R-R-R-Rock facts! [Sylvia laughs]
Art: [horrible gurgling] HGGHHRRRock facts — no, I can’t do it. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: I’m not doing it because I don't want to shake my headphones off, but I do appreciate the commitment. 
Dre: Anyway, we gotta figure out…so we’re answering each individually how influence grows? 
Sylvia: Yeah, like how have you personally gained more influence in the time in between — And by the way, if we want, we could say this is like a year later, this is two, we can be flexible with time frame here. 
Keith: I like a time jump, I think, ‘cause, at least for my character it's not like, it's not super obvious how I would quickly go from, y’know, where I was to needing to move to the seat of power to capitalize on my influence. 
Sylvia: Yeah. This game I think also lends itself to the time jump because it's supposed to be over this great period of time the Knife gets changed and so do the conspirators before everything comes together. [Dre: Mhm.] Um, so yeah, I think, do we want to say, I'm gonna throw out, do you wanna say there's like a five-year jump? Is that too long? Do we want to do two-year?
Keith: Three?
Sylvia: Split the difference. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Dre: Yeah, three, let's do it.
Sylvia: Okay. Um...Yeah, does anybody have anything? Or should I go with my slightly tinkered Minister of Transportation idea? 
Art: Um, if you’d like to go first, you sure can. 
0:29:15 - Timeskip
Sylvia: Okay. Um, so I can't remember who — we all kind of were just throwing ideas out, you know, we were riffing as we do. When someone said this was the big like hub, there were like zeppelin bays and stuff here. And to me that immediately was like oh okay, this is like the center of where Gabrielle — this is, despite wanting it to be originating from like Mount Feldspar or whatever, this is where like, by necessity the hub of all of the transport stuff has to be. And so like her like, dad or like, mom or whoever was in charge retired or passed away, and now she's like actually the head of the like transportation like um, like she's moved into the head office basically. Like she's moved into like the family estate, the head office is here, like her cart shit is working better than expected so far. Like, it's made it so like, there’s like, become a thing of if a Born Warm, like, was having like a worker shortage, they'll like, pay the other Born Warms to be like, let me have some of your workforce for a bit. Like a work exchange thing. Um, and that’s become really popular, or at least like popular among enough…It hasn't sunk the company yet despite the surprising amount of respiratory failure that started happening among workers, or increased respiratory failure among workers since it was introduced. 
Keith: I like that it's got this of thing of like, you know, in the real world we've got like free trade but not freedom of movement, we have like extremely strict borders between places where people are allowed to go. And that’s sort of how it was here where people couldn't go anywhere because there was no, there was no method for them to travel except like, over the horrible ashy plains. [Sylvia and Dre: Mhm.] Unless you were rich and could fly, freely fly the…what were they? What are the airships? 
Sylvia: They were just called, we were just calling them zeppelins. 
Keith: Zeppelins, yeah. And but now it's sort of like, now it is like people are a resource that we're shipping back and forth like raw materials. Because everyone's got their own raw materials, they've all got the same materials, it's the people that need to move around. Instead of like here, we have the people where they need to be, sit, sit, just sit, stay, [Sylvia laughs] we'll take the ore and ship it here to smelt it and then ship it there to hammer it and then the zip-tie, we’ll make the plastic here and then form — shape it over here and then put the, uh, y’know bits together over here and then sell it over there. Here it's like, yeah, put the people on a car, just sh — just drive ‘em. Um, anyway, that's, that’s all I had to say.
Sylvia: No, I love it, I like, thank you. I love to have my shit hyped up. But yeah, no, I thought I'd just fit with the way that we've talked about the attitude that the Born Warm have towards the Laze as very much like, expendable.
Keith: Mhm.
Sylvia: Um, yeah. I think that’s the main thing for me. Is, I’ve just like, I’ve gone from high society to highest society. 
Art: Sure. Um, I think Claxton’s made a lot of having to exile a Chief Inspector, and that there is like a rot within this police department, and the only way to solve it is with more executive power.
Sylvia: Oh, so you’re like, trying to get the like, executive power for Claxton specifically?
Art: Yeah like, I need more power to root out these bad actors in the department, [Sylvia and Dre: Mmm.] and like an elite group of people working on that report only to me. 
Sylvia: Yeah yeah yeah!
Art: Y’know just like, all the crap they always do.
Keith: Mhm.
Sylvia: That rules. 
Keith: More funding.
Art: More funding for training.
Sylvia: Keith or Dre, do you guys have any ideas yet, or?
Keith: I have an idea.
Dre: [cross] Yeah… 
Keith: [cross] Oh, Dre, you can go if you want.
Dre: Well, I know the broad idea, I don’t know the specifics. The broad idea is…
Sylvia: We can talk it out.
Dre: Well so the broad idea is that my mom is dead. [Sylvia: Mhm.] So I am now finally in control of my family’s business.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: You’re gonna do great.
Dre: Um, I’m not quite sure how my mom died, y’know? Who could say.
Sylvia: Mysterious circumstances? 
Dre: Yeah. Um…
Sylvia: Hmm! 
Dre: Who could say?
Sylvia: Who could. Who could say, Eliza?
Dre: Y’know, industrial accidents will happen um, when you do not take safety seriously enough, and by safety I mean, [Sylvia: Oh my god.] uh, blaming the people that work for you.
Sylvia: Oh yeah. If only those people were like robots or machines or something instead.
Dre: This is what I’m always saying. [Art laughs]
Sylvia: [chuckles] I love it. Um, how is your little sister doing with all this?
Dre: Oh, she’s fine. [Keith and Art laugh]
Sylvia: Yeah? Luetta’s good?
Dre: Yeah yeah. She’s back home.
Sylvia: Okay. Cool.
Dre: She doesn’t have a mind for business.
Sylvia: Of course not, of course not.
Dre: Yeah,  so y’know it falls to me to keep her safe and comfortable.
Keith: Has the automation business — are you in the business yet, or are you still working on this?
Dre: Hmm. I think I am not explicitly in the business, um, I am doing the like, private investor thing. [Keith and Sylvia: Okay.] Where like, I don’t — do we have shell companies? Is our tax system like, [wheezes] complex enough?
Sylvia: I don’t think it’s that, I don’t think we even need that sort of thing. Like I don’t think…
Dre: Yeah, yeah. So yeah, it’s just me, it’s just me investing in all of these companies. Anyone who knows knows that I’m doing it basically, but there’s enough distance there, um, that I could have plausible deniability.
Sylvia: Hell yeah. I love a shadow — oh my god, it’s the invisible hand of capitalism. Oh no! [Art chuckles]
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s pushing her father into the lava! [Keith laughs]
Dre: Supply and demand just really want to supply me with dead parents. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Well you’ve demanded it, so.
Dre: Yeah, I demanded it, and now it’s being supplied to me, so…
Sylvia: [still laughing] Well, here you go! Yeah. Fuck yeah. Okay. Uh, Keith?
Keith: Yeah, so I have a quick question about, uh, Basalt’s volcano [Sylvia: Yeah!] um, that he had discovered. Do we know what was done with that?
Sylvia: No, I think actually, we had started something where I was funding like, excavations of yours. So I think the, what we had done was you had taken over like, excavating that stuff but maybe I’m implying more, or remembering more than we explicitly said.
Keith: Yeah, I don’t know if um, I don’t know if the Vugs are ready in three short years to um, to take back over a volcano but what I would like is to be, um, named…I would like to sort of co-opt Basalt’s research and uh, be appointed the head of, um, a uh, an organization who is doing this geological work to find, [Sylvia: Yeah.] to locate and excavate volcanoes that can then be, um, used as like, because anyone is in danger of becoming Dormant. It could happen to anyone, if all you’ve got is one volcano, then if that volcano runs out, all of a sudden you’re Dormant, and no one knows that better than the Vugs.
Art: Mm. I hear you. To paraphrase a cinematic classic, what’s better than one volcano? 
Keith: Two volcanoes — 
Art: A billion volcanoes.
Keith: Oh, a billion volcanoes.
Dre: Oh a billion — oh, I also was going to Office Space. If that’s where you were going, Keith.
Art: Oh, no I was going with The Social Network. [Keith chuckles]
Dre: Mm. No, I got that.
Keith: [chuckling] I forgot — I have zero memory of The Social Network.
Art: Um, it’s, it’s…it’s a fun movie to revisit now that um.
Sylvia: [cross] Everybody knows?
Art: [cross] Everything in it has become a hellish nightmare in your own life.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. Now it’s a villain origin story as opposed to like, look at this uplifting nerd tale.
Art: [cross] No, it was always a villain origin story.
Keith: [cross] I feel like it was a villain origin story then.
Sylvia: [cross] It was always that? Okay. I haven’t seen it in a long time.
Keith: But now, but it’s just like now it’s not like, controversial that it was a villain origin story. [Art chuckles]
Sylvia: Yeah, I guess that’s a better way to put it.
Keith: Um, the uh, so I think that what I wanna do is to be like, um, turning, turning volcanoes from something that you own — this is like a bank that owns volcanoes, and will sell pieces of volcanoes [Sylvia: Oh my god.] — shares of volcanoes as a sort of security to people who are already Born Warm.
Sylvia: I’m so glad we’re committing to making the most rancid characters ever. [Keith laughs] I’m like, so glad. Yeah, I love it.
Art: Yeah, Keith has made like, yeah, ugh. This is awful.
Sylvia: You’ve made a guy who lives up to the name Sanidine Vug. [Keith laughs] Like, well done.
Art: Star Wars ass name that it is.
Keith: Um, y’know Sanidine Vug invents financialization in this.
Sylvia: Fuckin’ incredible.
Art: Oh my god. Just having fractional volcano shares.
Dre: Mm. Mhm?
Keith: I want this — I want this to parallel back to, I think in the very first episode that we recorded I talked about this thing that I learned like forever ago in a like, medieval, y’know it was like a medieval Europe,, but there was a whole section on England and, y’know, it was such a bad situation that so many nobles, like, all they really had, their only possessions, they were unlanded nobles that had like, a piece of fur and like, this piece of fur clothing would signify like, I’m technically a noble. 
Sylvia: Ohh. This does sound familiar.
Keith: And I wanted to capitalize on that, um, pun not intended.
Sylvia: Well done regardless.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Thank you.
Sylvia: Yeah, I think…man! Everybody’s doing so great. Nothing’s…too big to fail! All four of us.
Keith: It says it right in the rules, right? Can’t fail? Wait, is that what it says? Lemme read this…uh…’has to fail.’ Shit!
Sylvia: No it’s fine, it’s fine, remember um, oh no wait no, this says ‘Keith especially now’, I was gonna say, it will destroy us completely. Um…
Art: Well, we could decide that instead we’re gonna just not do that. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: We’re gonna win? We could decide that we win instead?
Art: We’re gonna win!
Keith: Yeah, we just decided that we’re playing the Fast Knife. [Sylvia laughs]
Art: Yeah. ‘Down low too slow’ is the motto of…
Sylvia: [raspberries] Do…okay. Is it card time?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: God. Please. 
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre: Save us from ourselves.
Sylvia: Um…I will just…I think I was just drawing these last time so I’m just gonna do that. Oh, I forgot that they start so little! Um…there we go.
Keith: Tiny little baby cards.
Sylvia: Keith, this is your card. Do you wanna read it?
0:42:32 - First Card (Act II)
Keith: You are required to… “You require the help of a Conspirator with a delicate matter. Why? Are you open with them or do you hold something back?” Um…yeah. I have massively oversold shares. [Sylvia laughs] I have lied about how many shares I’ve sold of volcanoes.
Art: Is this just a Ponzi scheme?
Keith: [chuckling] Yeah this is a Ponzi scheme now. It wasn’t a second ago, but now I have this card [Art laughs] and it was. Uh, yeah, so uh, I have massively oversold the amount of shares that I was supposed to, and people that think that they have, y’know, X percent of a volcano have like, one-tenth of X percent. Um, and that is obviously not technically against the law because there was no law for this before, um, but you can see how it’s so obviously bad that if anyone found out they might kill me.
Sylvia: It’s bad optics too if anyone finds out, y’know?
Keith: Yeah, it’s very bad optics.
Sylvia: It’s bad for biz.
Keith: Uh, so, lemme think about who, or hear pitches on who would be the most likely person that I would go to for this. If I could remember what the Miro…there we go. Um…
Art: It depends how you want to do it, really.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s like we all have different ways of solving this,
Keith: Yeah, um, y’know, Art is the police, and I guess would be directly dealing with financial crimes, and I have the biggest preexisting relationship with Claxton I think, based on being an informant. 
Sylvia: Yeah. We at this point would have been working together for a few years  because I am, I’m funding this.
Keith: Yes, you’re funding this. So I guess that makes the most sense, probably. Uh, I think that makes the most sense. I think that I would go to Gabrielle Feldspar.
Sylvia: That’s me! Hi!
Dre: That’s you.
Keith: And…ooh, do I hold anything back? I think that Vug is a coward [Sylvia giggles] and even though it’s the worst decision, I think it would be better if I were fully honest. I don’t think that…I don’t think…I think that he would fuck it up and would try to get you to help without telling you the full story.
Sylvia: What do you tell me then? Like, do you wanna like…
Keith: Um, I think that I tell you that there was a mistake. There was a mistake with the…do we wanna do this as a scene? Or do we wanna just…
Sylvia: We could, yeah. I’m down if you are.
Art: Yeah, this seems like a fun scene.
Sylvia: Yeah, I agree.
Keith: Did I have a voice for Vug? I don’t think I did.
Sylvia: I don't know if you did. We had a little Vug scene, we had like the Vug family party [Keith: Yeah.] at one point,


Art: Oh, the Vug family.
Sylvia: But I don’t know how much of that was actual in-character dialogue.         
Keith (as Sanidine): Well, it was an oversight. It was an oversight with the books, and um, y’know the volcanoes, it was more popular than I thought, um, and uh, there’s a lot of people who want shares and who are paying for something that we need more of.
Sylvia: She like, scoffs and rolls her eyes. She’s like,
Sylvia (as Gabrielle): I know that your family hasn’t been in the business of managing volcanoes for a long time, Sanidine, but really, I would expect these rookie mistakes from someone who wasn’t descended from a Born Warm.
Keith (as Sanidine): Well, it’s hard to say no when they come with the cash, y’know?
Sylvia (as Gabrielle): Yes, well, it doesn’t necessarily matter if they’re coming with the cash when you can’t…when you have to come to me to help bail you out. It’s fine, it’s fine…
Keith (as Sanidine): Yeah, but I mean, think of it as uh, as an investment! In the business. The faster we get some more capital, the faster we can break new ground, and the faster that people’s, y’know, their books match our books.
Sylvia (as Gabrielle): [sighing] Yeah, well, I suppose it couldn’t hurt to, um, y’know, help staunch the bleeding a little bit here. You’re going to have to pay me back, though, This isn’t a gift. It’s an investment.
Keith (as Sanidine): Well, the business pays you back.
Sylvia (as Gabrielle): Yes, this is what I mean though. If I don’t see a return on this I’m going to be quite upset. 
Keith (as Sanidine): Oh, sure. Yes. I mean, in a way, and of course I’d never not pay you back, but if you think about it in a way the returns you’ve already been seeing are the returns that this is for. [Dre wheezes]
Sylvia (as Gabrielle): Uh huh. You need to learn to quit while you’re ahead sometimes, Sanidine.
Sylvia: Do we have checks in this world, out of character? Do we — am I writing a check here, or am I giving you some other, or am I giving you some funky rock that symbolizes that [chuckling] are we going full Flintstones?
Art: I think any resemblance to The Flintstones is completely coincidental. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: It’s completely coincidental, um…
Keith: Hey, where’d the serial number on this thing go?
Sylvia: [laughs] I filed it off with the bill of a um, pterodactyl that looked at the camera and went [shrilly] “It’s a living!” Um…yeah.
Keith: I think that we’ve got, I think we have checks. Of course the checks have pictures, and the pictures are of rocks.
Sylvia: Oh, of course. Okay. 
Keith: [laughing] Pictures of rocks…!
Sylvia: Then I write you a check while being bitchy at you. This one has pictures of, um, very smooth, very like, stones that have been in a tumbler for a long time, y’know?
Keith: Ooh.
Art: Ooh…
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Art: Those good rocks.
Sylvia: Mhm! Great texture, but this is on paper, so you can’t actually feel it. It’s just…
Dre: Yeah…
Art: Yeah, like, fuck ‘em.
Sylvia: [laughs] Okay…
Keith: That’s how you know how much the check is gonna be worth without looking at the money, it’s how nice the texture — how much you wanna stick your hand in the rocks.
Sylvia: Mhm. And you really wanna stick your hand in these rocks.
Art: But you can’t. ‘Cause it’s not real.
Keith: It’s not real.
Sylvia: Are you happy with that scene, or…
Keith: Yeah, yeah, I’m happy. I think Vug like, sort of smiles and is relieved and is like, y’know, ah thank you miss Feldspar, I gotta go. And just sort of like, hurries out. Gotta go find a different volcano somewhere.
Sylvia: Perfect. Um, okay, I think we’re gonna rock with our, is our…the order on Discord is the same for everybody, yeah? Or am I wrong about this?
Keith: For me it’s Art, Dre, me then you. 
Sylvia: Okay, that is the same for me. Which I think will be our play order, if that works for everybody?
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Yeah. Some would call this…alphabetical.
Sylvia: I was, I wasn’t 100%, y’know? ‘Cause it’s been a long day.
Keith: [cross] It’s really a 25 chance of being alphabetical by…
Art: [cross] Wow. Is it always like that?
Keith: Wait, no, that’s not true. Is it?
Art: No…
Keith: No, it’s not. It’s more than that.
Sylvia: Oh. I got a good fucking question here. “Answer as the Knife: Years pass. What valuable skills have you honed in captivity? How will they define your new identity?” Um, would love help with this one too. 
Keith: We got two characters. We’ve got the Knife, and we’ve got the old guy.
Sylvia: And Crust is also on the island now, and presumably had been for some time, [Dre: Mm.] I don’t know if we wanna like, did that go well? Did he like, immediately fall off a cliff or some shit, or did they team up?
Keith: Remind me who Crust is?
Sylvia: Crust is the cop who was exiled for getting onto the framing.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Oh, right yeah yeah yeah. The pre…oh, this is the, this is uh, [cross] Mr. Magoo’s big success.
Sylvia: [cross] This is like…yeah yeah yeah. This is like, yeah. I think that’s correct, yeah.
Keith: Right, because Magoo was supposed to not be effective. And instead…
Sylvia: Yeah, and instead brought stuff to the Chief Inspector, and then…
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: And so this guy was like the fall guy?
Sylvia: Yeah, I believe that’s kinda how we ended up playing it. Um…
Keith: Were you the Knife last time too?
Sylvia: Well, I’ve gotten the Knife a couple times. Which is why I’m also like, if, if we wanna do this together I’m totally chill with that.
Dre: What did we say was the deal with Slate?
Sylvia: Slate was…we kinda made it purposely ambiguous whether or not he killed his brother on purpose [Dre: Gotcha.] or not like, forever ago.And then he ended up being exiled here and has sort of just been surviving on it while other people come and go. Or well, come and die, basically. [Keith chuckles]
Keith: Come and go from this mortal coil. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah, exactly! Um, and we had the sort of like, wacky old man who showed Basalt how to like, hunt, and um…Basalt. [pronounced buh-SALT] I keep saying Basalt. [BAY-salt] Uh, showing Basalt how to hunt and like, take care of like, survive on the island. [Dre: Mhm.] Um, while his, like sort of physical capabilities were dwindling.
Keith: Hey, does anybody have…sorry. In Roll20, have like, a voice and video thing over their image now?
Dre: Yes.
Sylvia: Yeah I do have the join voice and video thing, I need to figure out how to turn that off.
Keith: I think it just might be forever.
Dre: I think it is forever, ‘cause I double-checked all my settings and I have everything set to none.
Keith: Yeah.
Art: [cross] God, fuck off…
Sylvia: [cross] It, it might be on the GM’s end. [Keith: Okay…Dre: Oh…] that, like, you can turn it off. Anyway. Um…
Dre: Um, I mean, you know. We could just go…I mean y’know. I know everyone has seen the smash, uh, cultural icon that is the Arrow series on CW. 
Keith: [cross] I haven’t seen this one…
Sylvia: [cross] Oh my god. Yeah? What about it? I’ve seen a little bit.
Dre: I mean, you know what happens when a rich person goes through trauma and is stranded on an island with a mysterious mentor…[giggles]
Sylvia: You want him to become Batman.
Dre: Specifically the Green Arrow, who is cooler than Batman, but sure. 
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre: I’m not gonna stand by that, I don’t have an actual opinion… [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: I was like, I don’t, I don’t have opinions on it —
Art: Dre fully Arrow-pilled.
Dre: I, what? [laughing]
Art: I said you’re fully Arrow-pilled.
Dre: That’s true, yeah.
Keith: Yeah, I don’t have a particular fondness for Batman.
Sylvia: I mean if we wanna make it so he’s like, a master hunter now, he’s like John Wick with a bow and arrow, I’m down with that.
Dre: What is the equivalent of a bow and arrow in lava society?
Keith: A sling? 
Sylvia: A sling’s kind of sick.
Keith: Right because it’s, ’cause there’s rocks everywhere.
Dre: [sighing] Yeah…
Sylvia: It doesn’t necessarily even have to be a specific…like we don’t necessarily have to pick a weapon proficiency, you know?
Keith: Gun. Could be a gun.
Sylvia: Gun! It could be gun — what if the skill that he learned on the island was how to make a gun? [Keith and Dre laugh]
Keith: Yeah, he Dr. Stone’d…
Art: A gun that shoots lava.
Dre: Can I counter-propose an idea and take us back to the sling—
Sylvia: Yeah, please take us back.
Dre: —and propose that another thing that is in this society is that like, each of the big families have like, as part of their family crest and lineage and whatever, they have like a family rock or a family mineral?
Sylvia: Okay…
Dre: Then when…the Sling. We can’t call him the Sling. Then when he kills people with the sling he kills them with the rock that’s like, their family mineral. I don’t know.
Keith: So like a calling card.
Sylvia: The Slinger!
Dre: Yeah! [laughing] The Slinger!
Sylvia: I do like the, the…
Dre: We’re not calling him the Slinger.
Sylvia: No, but I do like the like, expert marksman with a sling thing, I do like that it’s just like, we’re doing ‘what if Arrow was cooler again?’ I know that Arrow the show was like what if The Green Arrow was modern cool, but we’re making it Friends at the Table cool, which is, uhhh…
Keith: Now are we worried that the Arrow can’t be made cooler?
Sylvia: Um, I dunno —
Art: Well we could make it so that when he dies there’s not a bunch of people posing at his tombstone celebrating.
Sylvia: Is that really…oh, that’s what that’s from!
Art: You know that meme? That’s celebrating Steven Amell leaving Arrow.
Sylvia and Dre: Is that true?
Art: That is 100% true, to the best of my knowledge.
Sylvia: I mean, I know that Steven Amell’s a piece of shit [Dre: Aww…] because he broke, like he scabbed when they were making Heels.
Dre: Oh that sucks.
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Dre: I just liked him without a shirt on when he did the salmon ladder thing.
Sylvia: Fair enough, a lot of people do.
Keith: Salmon ladder?
Sylvia: It’s a, it’s like a Crossfit.
Dre: Yeah.
Art: Yeah, it’s an American Ninja Warrior thing.
Keith: I don’t know who this is, I don’t know what the Arrow is, I don’t know salmon ladders.
Dre: Hold on, I’ll get you a clip don’t worry about it.
Keith: Ohh, it’s that thing! I have actually seen this. It’s the woop woop woop woop bar where you go up.
Sylvia: Yeah, where you go woop woop woop woop!
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Art: [chuckling] Yeah, the woop woop woop woop bar, yeah.
Keith: Um, and did this guy play Arrow? Or just someone else that quit?
Dre: No, that’s, the guy in the video I linked is the guy who played the Arrow.
Keith: Okay. And he quit and everyone loved it?
Dre: Apparently.
Art: Yeah, apparently the cast did not like him.
Dre: I was out of the Arrow-verse at that point.
Sylvia: Yeah…
Dre: Shout out to the cop dad on that show. He’s great. [Sylvi laughs]
Keith: Father of a cop? The father of cops? The father who was a cop?
Dre: No, he’s a cop and he’s the dad of, uh, he two sisters that the Arrow off and on throughout that show.
Sylvia: Okay. Sure. Many such cases. Um, I do think, I like the idea of just giving him a signature weapon and him immediately being like, ‘I know how to make this so much cuntier.’ [Dre laughs] And it’s gonna, I’m gonna use their birthstones or whatever, [Dre: Shit yeah.] like their noble family birthstone.
Dre: I’m gonna murder you with an opal.
Sylvia: Yeah. I love it, genuinely. Y’know? We wanna play, we said when we started this, campy is the way to go, and that doesn’t necessarily just mean for the bad guys. Um, I am satisfied with that answer for that card, if we’re good to move on I can pull the next one.
Dre: Sure.
Sylvia: I figure I’ll just do the drawing like last time ‘cause it was kind of, um, annoying otherwise. Art, are you good for this? Ohh. Oh, this is pretty good for you. Oh actually, also just a reminder, a rule that we glossed over mostly because I feel like we are good at rolling with prompts regardless, is if you think a card would be more suited to another conspirator, you can be like, do you think you could answer this instead? Um, so there’s kind of a pass mechanic, But regardless, anyway.
Art: I think I am gonna take this one.
Sylvia: Yeah, it feels right. Do you wanna read it?
0:58:38 - Third Card
Art: “You witness a transgression by a high-ranking official. What do you see? What price do you demand for your silence?”
Sylvia: Damn. Did — oh fuck, the guy in charge of the super-police saw me doing something bad, oh no! [chuckles]
Art: [laughing] Saw a crime!
Sylvia: Oh fuck! Um, we also could, like, because we’ve mentioned some higher, like up nobility we can always just invent like, someone who’s in a position of power.
Art: Sure.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Art: Um, who is the worst person…for the chief of police to have this thing over? Okay, I think it’s the head of the military.
Dre: Mm!
Sylvia: Oh fuck.
Art: The like, the general, y’know, the…[Sylvia: Mhm?] y’know. We’ve exhausted my knowledge of military rank at this point. Um, [chuckling] and general is the top. And, um, I think that I see the general…[sigh] is it too incestuous to tie this into the Ponzi scheme?
Sylvia: I don’t think so. I think the point of this game is that the red threads get all, like, if there was a conspiracy board with like actual red string it’d be going all over the place.
Art: Yeah. The general is encouraging low-ranking enlisted people to invest in this volcano share business. [Sylvia and Dre: Mmm.] And I know it’s crooked.
Sylvia: Okay. So, is this like, this is like a, almost like the general is doing like a protection racket type thing? Or, where he’s like leaning on people to get into this? Or…
Art: Um, I think it’s less like a protection racket and more of like, just taking advantage of dupes.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: Hmm. 
Art: [cross] And I know — 
Keith: [cross] Trying to pump the stock. Trying to…
Art: Yeah. He’s doing a pump and dump. 
Sylvia: Okay. Okay.
Keith: Classic.
Art: He’s got shares, he’s gettin’ other people to buy shares so he can sell his shares for more, it’s…
Keith: Because he knows it’s crooked.
Art: Yeah, a boring crime if we’re being honest. 
Keith: Hey, the boring crimes are the worst ones.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: [cross] That is…that does tend to be the case.
Keith: [cross] Except for I guess, murder.
Sylvia: Well yeah…
Keith: That one’s not boring but also is pretty bad.
Art: Yeah. I think the price is…the border between police and military starts to blur in, in Claxton’s favor.
Sylvia: Oh shit. Okay, yeah.
Art: The like, police become more militarized, the military can do more police actions, but those people are also under Cascade’s thumb.
Sylvia: Yeah, everything sort of coming back to that like, more executive power that you were, [Art: Yeah.] um, that you were looking for. 
Keith: Cascade’s Thumb sounds like a landmark.
Art: What’s that?
Keith: Cascade’s Thumb sounds like a landmark?
Sylvia: Kinda — honestly, nickname for the police station.
Keith: Yeah.
Art: Cascade’s Thumb, that’s good, yeah.
Sylvia: Ooh, I actually, yeah.
Art: [cross] You don’t wanna be under Cascade’s Thumb. 
Keith: [cross] It’s like near, it’s near a lavafall.
Art: That’s where the holding cells are. People disappear in there.
Sylvia: Yeah, they keep it near the lavafall because the heat makes it more inhospitable when you’re in the holding cells.
Art: Yeah, for sure.
Keith: [sinister voice] Beware Cascade’s Thumb…
Sylvia: [snorts] Dark Souls NPC. [Keith and Dre laugh] Um, I love all of that. That’s fucking great. Um, yeah. This place is, everything is going so well on Oligo.
Art: Yeah, we’re gonna win.
Sylvia: We’re gonna win!
Keith: [cross] We’re gonna win.
Dre: [cross] We’re gonna win.
Sylvia: It’s gonna happen! What could go wrong?
Dre: I’m always saying this.
Sylvia: We’re doing sooo well. Don’t— ignore all these cards with the big knife on them. [Keith chuckles] Are we…
Art: I’m sure it’s gonna be fine.
Sylvia: You feel satisfied with that, Art?
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay cool. Um, next up is Dre. I will pull your card.
Dre: It me! Euh.
Sylvia: Oh you get a Knife!
Dre: Aw hell yeah.
Sylvia: Oh…ohh shit!
Keith: Oh my god!
Art: Oh wow.
Sylvia: This is kinda crazy!
Dre: Wow, okay. “Answer as the Knife. Years pass. You have become rich. How did you obtain this secret fortune? What doors in society will it open?”
Sylvia: This is, like a big shift.
Keith: This is a huge shift, oh my god.
Sylvia: This is massive.
Keith: This, this feels like Snares to me.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: [chuckles] You’re telling me this is only Vines?
Keith: [slurring] You trying to tell me this is Vines? This is Snares!
Sylvia: This is — [wheezes]
Dre: [laughing] The fuck?
Keith: I’m getting real Snares vibes from this.
Sylvia: There’s a hint of Knife even.
Keith: Oh, there’s a hint of Knife.
Sylvia: Um —
Dre: [laughing] I have no idea what the fuck is happening. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: They’re talking about the other decks, we’re having, we’re just, y’know.
Dre: Oh okay. Okay, alright.
Keith: Oh yeah, the decks are called Ashes, Vines, Snares and Knives, and those are the act names.
Dre: Ohh, okay.
Keith: We’re in act two, nicknamed Vines, the next one is Snares.
Dre: Okay. Boy, okay.
Keith: Sorry, it’s good to explain that for the people who also aren’t watching.
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: Yeah, I appreciate it. We can uh, talk this out Dre, too, if you like, you don’t have to come up with it 100% on your own but I’d love for you to direct something if you’d like.
Dre: Yeah, sure. Um…do we think it would be better if this was something that is like, an abandoned cache somewhere that is found or this is more Basalt like directly stealing?
Sylvia: There is…
Art: Some sort of Robin Hood situation.
Sylvia: Well so, the thing with the Robin Hood situation would mean we’d have to decide that he’s off the island now, right? [Dre: Yeah.] Like, the deserted island.
Art: [cross] I don’t think you can get rich on a deserted island.
Dre: [cross] I mean, it seems like this implies that he’s off the island in some way.
Sylvia: Yeah. I was going to…my question for this, is does he go straight back to Oligo or does he go to like, the larger continents, um, like we sort of gestured at the mainland at one point. Like, does he make his fortune there, as opposed to…
Dre: What, um, what information could he get from Chief Inspector Crust? [Sylvia: Oh…] That could lead to him hittin’ it big. Is there some sort or scam or some sort of something that Crust would know about?
Keith: There’s also, while we think about that, there’s uh, the like, the question of the mainland I think opens up everything in a way that’s gonna be too big. [Sylvia: Okay.] Like uh, a lot of the Oligo stuff really makes sense as a closed system.
Sylvia: That’s true.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: As soon as you introduce like, yeah there’s like a big fucking country next door. [chuckles]
Dre: [cross] Yeah, I just went to Portugal over here.
Keith: [cross] That doesn’t have volcanoes, they have a totally different thing going on.
Dre: Yeah. [chuckles]
Keith: And, maybe I’m misremembering, but is it possible that the reason it said mainland, he was exiled to the mainland, is because like, there’s not a society on the mainland? Like it’s the mainland, but then it’s bigger?
Sylvia: Maybe? My, I mean like I had always assumed they weren’t in contact with whatever it was and that like, would make the return all the more dramatic. But also, if it’s just a big continent that’s empty, that’s also kind of cool and creepy.
Dre: I do like that. But I think, yeah we can also keep this contained to like, our little ecosystem.
Sylvia: Yeah, I’m fine to keep it contained within the, the…the sort of bounds that we’ve already set.
Dre: Mm. God, maybe, maybe Basalt found a competing fuel source? Like on the island?
Sylvia: Oh my god. [chuckling] [cross] He invented steam power.
Keith: [cross] He discovered geothermal.
Dre: Wait, both of you made jokes about what fuel. 
Art: He discovered coal. [cross] Just. Now we’re gonna get coal.
Sylvia: [cross] Oh, I made a joke that he invented steam power.
Dre: Oh. Maybe. Who knows?
Sylvia: [laughing] Because, y’know, hearkening back to us being like, it can’t be steampunk guys, we can’t do steampunk! And then doing steampunk.
Dre: [cross] Okay, I see.
Keith: [cross] And then we invent steampunk in the…
Sylvia: [cross] Yeah, and we just were like…
Dre: Now we really have to win, because otherwise the Knife is bringing steampunk.
Keith: Oh, that’s so funny.
Sylvia: I mean, it’s the Mad Men line of like, of course somebody else had already invented it, but I arrived at it by myself regardless. [Dre chuckles]
Keith: Is Mad Men good?
Sylvia: Mad Men? I like Mad Men.
Keith: Should I watch Mad Men in 2024?
Sylvia: I, I watched it pretty recently again, and I think it holds up.
Dre: Art, what do you think? 
Art: I think Mad Men probably holds up. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Oh, god damn it.
Art: Pretty good.
Keith: I saw that comin’, that was very funny.
Sylvia: I — yeah. Um…fantastic.
Dre: Somehow this podcast crew is both the dream and nightmare blunt rotation at the same time at all times. [Keith and Art chuckle]
Sylvia: Yeah! Team tangent, you know?
Dre: Yeah! [laughs]
Sylvia: Um. I like the like, alternate power source thing. I would wanna make it like, maybe a little more fantastical than what we’ve suggested even.
Dre: Sure. Yeah.
Art: Yeah, steam seems a little…
Sylvia: Yeah, going to just like a traditional energy source that we have here in real like would be like, I don’t know. Unless he’s inventing electricity with magic electric rocks.
Keith: What about uh, you could do like uh, the Tesla wireless electricity stuff.
Art: I don’t think we fully explored magic electricity rocks.
Sylvia: Thank you, Art!
Keith: Oh sorry I, I was grounding that idea.
Sylvia: Yeah no, I think what if Tesla was powered by Final Fantasy — Tesla the inventor, that stuff was powered by Final Fantasy crystals.
Dre: Yeah let’s fuckin’ do it. I love it.
Art: Yeah. Some blue crystal that makes stuff work.
Keith: Yeah, like Protoss.
Art: We call it…Materia. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Mhm?
Sylvia: Uh huh…and it’s connected to the Lifestream…
Dre: Okay…and then you take Chadley to it and you plug your iPad into the Lifestream.
Sylvia: I forgot about Chadley…
Dre: And he tells you about the forgotten history.
Keith: When does Mickey Mouse show up?
Sylvia: Well, when you get—
Dre: Costa Del Sol.
Sylvia: Better answer than I had. [Dre laughs]
Dre: Um, okay. “How did you obtain this secret fortune?” We found it in the island, Uh…
Sylvia: I do — yeah, we don’t have to necessarily lay out the ways in which he’s found electricity on the island. [Dre: Yeah yeah yeah, for sure.] I just do really love the idea of this guy showing up like, check it out! I got semiconductors!
Dre: Yeah. I think what doors it opens in society is that he now has a much easier, faster power source than what Gabrielle Feldspar has been using for powering all of our zeppelins and shit.
Keith: Right. It has the added bonus of not being lava.
Dre: Yeah. Or just, the air.
Art: I hear it’s really dangerous though.
Sylvia: [chuckles] Yeah, definitely more dangerous than the lava.
Art: Kills birds.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Uh, strikes trees.
Sylvia: Oh, is that like the thing about it? [Keith laughs] Is like, is this the fantasy thing where we have to, the way that you recharge this is you have to use them as like, lightning rods?
Dre: Oh, that’d be sick.
Keith: Is there a lot of thunder in uh, Oligo?
Sylvia: Um…maybe more so on the island here?
Dre: Oh god yeah that’s the thing, the island is in like a different climate zone so it gets a shitton of thunderstorms.
Sylvia: Yeah, like it’s far enough away from the sort of like volcanic climate that the  island has.
Keith: Hey, it’s been ‘years pass’ twice, what’s up with uh, Slate?
Sylvia: Man he’s probably gettin’ pretty old, right? Like…
Dre: Yeah…
Sylvia: I don’t know if he’s…is he still kickin’? Do we like…?
Art: Maybe Slate’s ghost is what makes the electric rocks work.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh my god…he died and when he was found the body was pointing somewhere and it was pointing at these electric magical stones. [Dre and Keith laugh]
Art: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah, and he had an audio log recorded nearby that you could listen to.
Keith: Yeah it says, ‘hey before I die remember I gotta tell, uh, I gotta tell uh, Basalt about the uh, magic rocks that I found forever ago.’
Dre: And then—
Sylvia: It’s how I’m using this tape recorder.
Dre: In his own blood he writes on a nearby tree ‘the rocks are magic.’ And then there’s like a big arrow that points at the rocks.
Art: He died of one of those ‘old age lots of blood’ things.
Dre: Yeah. Anyway this was a great brainstorming session for Ken Levine’s newest game, but we should probably get back to playing The Slow Knife. 
Sylvia: Ughhh….
Keith: Yeah, so what is our, what is the version of any of these ideas that is like, slightly believable?
Sylvia: Actionable?
Keith: Yeah.
Art: First of all, how dare you. [Keith and Dre laugh]
Sylvia: Yeah, first of all — 
Keith: Hey, Art, y’know to your credit I think magic electric rocks is closest. [Art chuckles] Um, another, y’know, a more boring idea that works with uh, I think Dre you said, you were talking about a different climate zone, or maybe Sylvi that was you, I can’t remember…
Sylvia: We, kinda both of us.
Keith: Yeah. Uh, it could be much windier? We could get some wind power. Um, we could do the, the magic rocks reminded me of like, crystal vibration in like a quartz watch, maybe something with that? Like you could turn, you could scale that up into like, yeah, get these big rocks, and if you put, y’know, if you put electricity into them then they, like, shake in a way that can power a piston.
Dre: Yeah!
Sylvia: I like this a lot because him being a rock expert, [Keith: Yeah. Dre: Ooh…] like a geologist, that’s the word, was like, a major character trait, y’know?
Keith: It goes — It’s adjacent to the volcano stuff, y’know, he’s a rock guy…
Sylvia: Yeah! He’s a rocker as we call them.
Keith: He’s a rocker, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah no, I love that. How am I wording this on our thing here? Um…
Keith: I don’t know, because it’s made up, so…[Dre laughs, then Keith]
Sylvia: Yeah yeah yeah yeah, okay, um…discovered crystals that vibrate when exposed to, what?
Keith: Electricity.
Dre: Electricity, yeah.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: ‘Cause they know about electricity, they just have like, geothermal electricity.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: That’s a good point.
Sylvia: [mumbling while writing] Okay. Okay.
Keith: I think that we’ve talked about them having like, weird computers.
Sylvia: We have, like big analogue slow computers. This is one of the first things that you were like, we need to have this Curta calculator.
Keith: Oh, right! The Curta calc— and then also the logic gate from Minecraft.
Sylvia: Mhm!
Art: Mm.
Sylvia: Um, yeah okay. And I guess my other big question is, is this like, I guess we don’t necessarily need to answer if this is how he gets back to the island quite yet, to Oligo quite yet. But…
Art: I like the idea of like just running a shadowy energy company from an island.
Sylvia: Y’know, he’s doing experiments! He’s trying to figure out how to build the world’s first speedboat.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Does he, um, give power to the Laze in some way? That, that like…
Sylvia: I think that’s probably part of his plan, right?
Keith: Yeah, but I don’t know how he would get rich from that.
Sylvia: Um…
Art: I think we might be able to just slow burn it.
Sylvia: Yeah, let’s, we can come back to this for— later. But I think that this does answer the secret— like this answers the questions laid out here.
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: If we’re ready to move on, Keith, this next one’s gonna be for you.
Keith: I would love that. 
Sylvia: [mumbling] Oop, and I will largen it…[laughs]
Dre: Yeah, large it up.
1:16:15 - Fifth Card
Keith: “You borrow heavily to pursue a risky venture.” [chuckling] “Why does it fail? Which of your looming creditors do you fear the most?”
Sylvia: That’s so perfect!
Keith: Oh my god, perfect. I actually think that um, this would be a better question for Feldspar.
Sylvia: Oh, for me? Okay…
Keith: No no no no no, [Dre laughs] this is perfect for me, I’m not going to put this off on you.
Sylvia: Yeah? You sure?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: So, we know what the risky venture is. We’ve been talking about it, [Sylvia: Uh huh?] it’s been the whole thing. This has lined up perfectly. And, uh, I think it fails…huh. Trying to think of…oh! It fails because the general sells.
Art: Mm…
Keith: And is unable to be paid out fully because of…sorry, the answer was literally right in front of me. I can’t pay out the general, do we have a name for the general?
Sylvia: I don’t think we did.
Art: No, it’s um…where’s the…I don’t have a list of rock words in front of me…
Sylvia: Oh shit.
Keith: We’re useless without our rock words!
Art: Uh, yeah. General Dwayne. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: General Shaquille O’Neal.
Art: Both.
Keith: Tenerife.
Sylvia: Tenerife?[3]
Dre: Oh, I do like that. Tenerife.
Keith: It’s the name of a volcano in Spain.
Sylvia: Sure.
Dre: Okay, yeah.
Art: Great.
Keith: Um, we could also go with Three-Fingered Jack,[4] a name of a volcano in the United States. [giggles]
Art: I would have thought most volcanoes have zero fingers. 
Keith: Um, anyway, Tenerife? Or?
Sylvia: I like Tenerife. Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: So yeah, so Tenerife was orchestrating this, y’know ‘cause I don’t think it’s hard to believe that, y’know, a general’s like, I got a volcano, I don’t really need this security, what I do need is quick cash. So I’m going to whip up all these people that trust me into buying shares, and the value’s gonna go up and it’s going to be this big thing and I’m going to sell it all, and uh, goes to try to collect and is like, uh, can we pay you in installments? You know, it’s better for the…can you not dump it all at once? It’s like, no I’m dumping it all at once. Uh, I don’t, what movie is that? Oh no, you know what it is, what’s the Breaking Bad knock off with the guy from, with Jason Bateman?
Sylvia: Oh, Ozark?
Keith: Ozark.
Sylvia: The show that half the middle-aged parents in America love?
Keith: Yeah, my mom tried to get me to watch Ozark and I saw a couple episodes and  don’t listen to SmartLess so I’m still a fan of Jason Bateman, and uh, so I gave it a shot and, um. [cross] Did not like it.
Sylvia: [cross] Dreadful?
Keith: But there was the scene where he’s like, makes this big bluff about going and trying to withdraw like, millions of dollars from the bank and they’re like, you can’t do that, and he’s like, I’m gonna call the Fed. I don’t remember— but this is how it goes.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I think it, it causes a like, really widespread panic among the Born Warm who are the primary, the meaningful investors in this venture.
Sylvia: Mhm.
Keith: And these people are sick. They’re out for blood. They’re out for literal blood, um…
Sylvia: Oh! Like, coming to your home, knocking on the door when it’s the middle of the night type shit?
Keith: I think, no I think that this is like, in a hideout type shit. Like my house has burned down type shit. And probably the creditor that I fear the most…could it be Feldspar? Are we at that point?
Sylvia: I mean…
Keith: ‘Cause not only are you a major investor in the business, in the other sense, you haven’t, like bought into the star— maybe you have, but you’ve also on the other end, given me the startup capital to even start the business. But now, you’re dragged into this too, so like, I owe you millions, and also people are like, thinking that you’re a part of this.
Sylvia: I…I’m down for that, honestly. I think that like—
Keith: But I don’t know structurally if the game can support that.
Sylvia: No, this game absolutely can support that.
Keith: Like well, sure in Snares. In Knives. But in Vines?
Sylvia: I think we can handle it even in Vines. [cross] I’m gonna be honest.
Keith: [cross] Okay. I’ve got something to say, I’m gonna say that it’s…
Sylvia: I trust us as advanced professional gamers to…
Keith: I think Gabrielle Feldspar is who I’m afraid of the most. ‘Cause it could also, it could not be true. It’s not who is out to get me literally, it’s…
Sylvia: The way we’ve set stuff up is that like, I sort of like bankrolled a lot of your early stuff, I have been the major investor in all this…
Keith: Right, you were a fan of my early work.
Sylvia: Yeah yeah yeah. Before you got the record deal. And like, I staked part of my reputation on this to give you credibility as well, and I think that’s the thing that really starts souring me on you, is when my reputation—
Keith: Right, if it weren’t for Gabrielle Feldspar no one would know who the fuck Sanidine Vug is.
Sylvia: I mean that’s at least how she sees it. Like…
Keith: Vug hasn’t been a name on anyone’s lips in 450 years.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Yeah. And so now like, now my reputation is coming under the, in the crosshairs? Like, people are saying things on my name? That’s not good. I’m gonna complete— like, I think I’m threatening to cut you off, like I’m gonna stop funding your shit. Unless you can get your act together. Y’know?
Keith: Yeah hey, fair.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Dre chuckles] Alright.
Keith: That’s fair. That’s fair.
Sylvia: Um, yeah okay. I think it’s my turn now. Unless, did you have anything else Keith? Or are we good to move on? [Keith: Mm-mm.] Oh. “Someone you left behind arrives at your new home. What do they want from you? How do you get them to leave?” I actua— okay. If you don’t wanna answer this you don’t have to, but Dre?
Dre: Mhm?
Sylvia: Would this work for your character and like, her sister maybe?
Dre: Oh, I like that.
Sylvia: Are you comfortable with me passing it over there? And if we want to do a scene, I’d be happy to play her.
Dre: Yeah I was gonna ask, do you want to do that?
Sylvia: Yeah, um, [mumbling] what does she want from her, what does she want from her…Okay, I think it’s a um, unannounced visit, like she’s like, 
Sylvia (as Luetta): Oh, I was stopping by in the city for a bit and I wanted — 
Sylvia: Um, I don’t have a name for theoretical partner husband or whatever but like,
Sylvia (as Luetta): I had an appointment in the city and I just thought while they’re off handling that I could come see my dear sister and see how she’s doing and wonder if she’s ever gonna come visit home again!
Keith: Steel.
Dre: [scoff] What?
Keith: That’s the name.
Dre: Oh.
Sylvia: Oh, Steel? Yeah.
Dre (as Eliza): Oh, Luetta, my sweet summer star. I would so, so love to be at home instead of here. [sigh]
Sylvia (as Luetta): Surely a week, or even just a couple days off, you know, you’ve got a niece and nephew you still haven’t met.
Dre (as Eliza): What if, in….hold on, let me check my calendar. Flip, flip, flip, flip…
Sylvia: The forced smile is fading on Luetta’s face.
Dre (as Eliza): I have a free weekend in three weeks.
Sylvia (as Luetta): Oh! Yes, we’d love to have you!
Dre (as Eliza): Excellent. Is there anything you’d like me to bring?
Sylvia (as Luetta): Oh, um, not necessarily, though, um…you do know, though…
Sylvia: I’m trying to think how she could bring this up as like a response to that. Where it’s like…
Sylvia (as Luetta): No, oh I couldn’t ask for anything like that. Though, things have been hard with um, with my dear Steel’s mountain starting to dry up a bit, and he hasn’t been able to quite find an opportunity elsewhere. I was…maybe, y’know, if you had a position back home at any branches over there, or…And then we would be able to properly host you three weeks from now and give you the proper treatment that, y’know, the Quartz family is so accustomed to.
Dre (as Eliza): Luetta, you know that the family business is always open to family. 
Sylvia (as Luetta): Oh! Wonderful!
Dre (as Eliza): You just have Steel forward over his resume and it’ll be taken care of.
Sylvia (as Luetta): But that’s more of…that’s just a formality, correct?
Dre (as Eliza): Oh. Of course. I just wanna make sure he’s doing something he would actually find interesting.
Sylvia (as Luetta): You’re the best big sister in the world!
Sylvia: Gives you like a big hug. Like, back to being just as peppy as she was when she walked in.
Dre: Very awkwardly like pats you on the back. [chuckles]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Sylvia (as Luetta): You wanna go grab a coffee, catch up a bit more? I know you’re very busy.
Dre (as Eliza): Why don’t we call for some coffee and let’s look over some quarterly reports, and we could find a place where Steel could make a difference.
Sylvia (as Luetta): Uh, sure. [Dre laughs] Wh-whatever you say, Eliza.
Dre (as Eliza): Luetta. You know I’m kidding. I wouldn’t dare bore you to death like that.
Sylvia (as Luetta): I should have known! You’re always joking with me.
Dre (as Eliza): I’m not joking about family. You just send me Steel’s information and we’ll get it all taken care of.
Sylvia (as Luetta): Of course, of course.
Sylvia: Actually, I think it would be really funny if she just had the resume on hand. [wheezes]
Dre: Oh no! [laughs]
Sylvia (as Luetta): Actually, um…
Dre: Hi I’m here with my husband, he’s really embarrassed but he needs to apply for jobs…[chuckles]
Sylvia: Oh, y’know. I’m picturing this guy as a total loser.
Dre: Yeah sure, No I’ll take it. Listen, he’s gonna get a job.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Dre: Now, what’s gonna happen after he gets that job, I don’t know! It’s probably up to the safety procedures and protocols, but…[Sylvia laughs]
Sylvia: That’s so true, which we know that’s she’s…y’know. She does great with.
Dre: You know, maybe that’s, maybe that’s what Steel needs a hands-on approach to. It’s about time we got some new eyes in this business.
Sylvia: [laughs] Oh my god! Okay, I love it. Do we wanna — Anything else in character you wanna get done, or are you solid with that?
Dre: Yeah, I mean, so is what you wanted basically like, a cushy job for your husband?
Sylvia: Yeah, a cushy job. It was a more— like, she could just be here to ask for money but what’s a more like, trying to save face way of doing that—
Dre: Oh for sure, yeah.
Sylvia: —that would be the sort of thing. The nepotism hire is what came to mind.
Dre: [chuckles] Good times. Yeah, no, perfect.
Sylvia: Alright, sick. Um, alright so this next card is gonna be for Art. You good to go?
Art: [ragged] Yeah. [clears throat] Oh, jeez. 
Sylvia: Hell yeah. No worries.
Dre: [exaggerated throat-clear noises]
Art: [grumbly voice] Rah, I could do another card, hrmhrm…
Sylvia: [chuckles] Oh, cool new voice. Oh!
Art: [crosstalk] A pirate…
Keith: R-R-R-R-Rock facts!
Sylvia: Um, there, pulled it for you.
Art: “You remove someone who threatens or blocks your goals. What is their fate? What loose thread do you leave?” I wanna bring this back to Magma Goo. [Keith and Sylvi laugh]
Dre: I’m always saying this.
Sylvia: The intrepid Mack Goo! Mack Magma Goo!
Art: I think Mack Magoo, this has now been years, is starting to put things together. Magma Goo has his own corkboard, and it looks like this. Starting to get a little to close. 
Sylvia: Uh oh.
And you know what? I think there’s gonna be a leak, a lava leak.
Sylvia: Oh no!
Art: Right under Mack Magoo’s house.
Dre: Jesus.
Sylvia: Oh…so, wait. So…his house burned down?
Art: Yeah, and like, quick too. It’s like one of those, you know like, they tell you you can’t run from a lava flow? You ever heard th—yeah. Just like that. It’s like, you ever heard that, I definitely heard that, is a part of this show. [chuckles]
Sylvia: We talked about that for sure.
Art: Yeah. And it just like, it goes up in an instant, that’s it for Magoo and his whole Magoo clan.
Sylvia: Damn!
Dre: All the Magooin’s.
Sylvia: Magone. [Dre laughs]
Art: Magone! Magma gone! [Keith chuckles] But it’s one of those things, y’know, two can keep a secret if one of them is dead. And to fill someone’s house with lava, that takes a lot of someones. And now I need a better name than Magma Goo. I’ve really fucked myself on this point.
Dre: Yeah I don’t know how you’re gonna do better than that, but…
Art: Let me just think of some old cartoon characters, and some lava words…Elmer Feldspar…
Sylvia: Hey, wait a minute. Don’t get my cousin to do your dirty work.
Art: [chuckling] I clearly just thought of Feldspar because I’m staring at it right now. [Sylvi laughs] [mumbling] Yosemite Sam…
Sylvia: [laughing breathily] Oh, fuck off!
Art: Occam Oligo. Oligo…
Sylvia: Wait…
Art: I’m just bringing in PALISADE characters now.
Sylvia: Yeah I was gonna say!
Art: Um…
Sylvia: Keith, why did you write ‘Diet Coke’ in this chat?
Keith: Uh, I wrote that when, uh, there was a pause after you, after Dre asked if there’s anything that they should bring for the party.
Sylvia: Oh! I thought, I thought you were saying name this cop Diet Coke.
Keith: [chuckles] No, that was minutes ago. I just thought it would be really funny to tell this rich person to bring Diet Coke to a party.
Sylvia: Yeah I agree, that would be funny. I need to look up volcanic terms.
Art: Officer Quartz.
Sylvia: We got that family already. It could be like a Steel, it could be related to, it could be like the in-law. [chuckles] If we really wanna…
Art: I need a list of rocks that are crossed off. [wheeze] Um…
Keith: Jasper the friendly cop.
Art: Yeah!
Sylvia: Okay.
Art: Giovanni Jasper.
Sylvia: [cross] Giovanni Jasper is a great name.
Dre: [cross] That’s pretty good.
Keith and Art: [cross] Yeah. 
Sylvia: That has fantastic mouthfeel.
Art: I got there. Um, and he was involved and he doesn’t like that he was involved.
Sylvia: Doesn’t sit right, got, got a cop with a conscience, that’s no good. Alright, feeling confident with that answer?
Art: Yeah, love it.
Sylvia: Cool. Dre, it’s back around to you.
Dre: Oh. That was fast.
Sylvia: Well, it’s because my turn…we, we collabed on something for your character.
Art: Are we gonna have the bottom card again? Are we sure these are shuffled? 
Sylvia: These are shuf— yeah, the way it works is you just do all the cards.
Art: Ohh.
Keith: Yeah, so the, we were—
Sylvia: Yeah, I remembered this halfway through playing last time.
Keith: Yeah. Is it Knives that can end anytime? Just the last one?
Sylvia: Knives, yeah Knives because there’ll be, like, Knives is when your Conspirator should be dying, basically. Or getting their comeuppance, like, the prompt— they never necessarily say like, you don’t pull a card that says, your Conspirator is, whatever. But they have a ton of prompts that are basically like, how does this person get comeuppance on you? And then within that scene, usually you’ll be like, okay now I’m off the board as a Conspirator. So Knives does tend to be the shortest of the acts when played correctly. Well, y’know, also depending on cards.
1:35:25 - Eighth Card
Dre: Alright. “I have a scandalous connection to a Conspirator’s spouse.” [chuckles] 
Sylvia: Yeah! 
Dre: “What are you doing together and who knows your secret?” Alright, which one of y’all is married?
Sylvia: I was— yeah, I don’t know if we’ve talked about any of that. Um…
Keith: I feel single.
Sylvia: I think Gabrielle’s the type who definitely married for like, some sort of, also married for like social clout.
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: Like in, if this was Crusader Kings, it would have been a matrilineal marriage. You know that— like, like, he’s adding to my prestige, not the other way around.
Keith: You’ve added— you’ve married a fourth son.
Sylvia: Yes. Very much that vibe. Like, um, it’d be very funny to be like, it’s Mosie, [Dre laughs] but I can’t do that.
Keith: It’s a Mosie-type.
Sylvia: It is a Mosie-type though. To the point where, like, I made him take my name, y’know?
Keith: Well, Feldspar, come on, I mean…
Sylvia: The Feldspar name has way more clout than the fuckin’, um, scrolling…wh— not using that one…
Keith: Which one?
Sylvia: [chuckling] The…uh…the one that I wasn’t gonna use was ‘cow-dung bomb.’ 
[Keith and Art laugh]
Dre: Oh, sounds great.
Art: Wait, hold on…
Keith: [still laughing] I mean I see why…I see why he opted for your name.
Sylvia: Yeah! [wheeze]
Art: Yeah, if I was, if I was named ‘cow-dung bomb’[5] [all chuckle] I would have married young and changed my name.
Sylvia: My idea was just to scroll on this list until I got to random ones, and the other one I scrambled, I scrolled randomly onto was ‘hornito.’[6] [everyone laughs] Oh my god!
Keith: Hi it’s me, Harry Hornito.
Dre: What’s going on with Claxton Cascade?
Sylvia: That’s a good question.
Dre: What’s the relationship situation?
Art: Um, I think Claxton is married.
Dre: Okay.
Art: In like, the way, you know, to advance in these sort of organizations you sort of need to appear stable, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Sure. Uh, who are you married to?
Art: Uh, Henrietta Hornito. 
Dre: Okay…[Sylvi giggles] And I guess it doesn’t necessarily say that like, you’re having an affair. It just says scandalous connection.
Sylvia: Yeah. There’s, like, plenty of ways this could be like, [Dre: Yeah yeah yeah.] yeah.
Keith: It certainly suggests an affair.
Dre: Sure, yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: But, yeah I don’t think you would have to do that.
Dre: Um, yeah, what…
Art: You could also be bootleggers together, or…
Keith: Yeah, you could be bootlegging. You could be running whiskey.
Dre: Sure. Man. Yeah, I just went for a girl’s night out with Claxton Cascade’s wife and we just did…so much drugs.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Art: Oh wow. That’s a risky thing.
Dre: Mhm.
Art: For everyone.
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Art: Gonna undermine the integrity of the…thing.
Dre: I like this idea though, ‘cause I feel like it also gives me potential…just collecting everyone’s spouses to hold leverage over them. 
Art: Yeah.
Dre: So, who knows our secret?
Keith: RC Grit is a uh, remote-controlled car champion. That’s my new character, for next time we play Bluff City.
Dre: R Secret? [chuckling] That’s pretty good.
Keith: RC Grit.
Art: R Secret. Mm.
Sylvia: [cross] RC— oh wait, is it…
Keith: [cross] No, RC, remote controlled, Grit.
Dre: [cross] Our Seacrest.
Keith: [cross] RC Grit.
Art: [cross] Oh, RC Grit. Oh, that’s great.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. Sorry, that was— I just need to remember that, RC Grit.
Art: Nah, write it down everywhere. 
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah. Okay, um, I do like this idea of me getting involved with Claxton’s wife. 
Sylvia: Henrietta Cascade, [Dre: Yes.] Formerly Henrietta Hornito.
Dre: Yeah. I call her up and I say, ‘oh, it’s time, it’s time for me and Horny to hit the town!’
Sylvia: [wheeze] Fuck!
Art: I told you not to call me that anymore. 
Dre: [laughs] She likes to tell everyone that Horny died in college but we all know that’s not true when it hits 2 AM. [Sylvi laughs]
Art: Give me, give her a few glasses of lavashine…no, that doesn’t work.
Dre: Lava wine. [laughs] Yeah.
Art: Lava wine, yeah. You really burn the grapes.
Sylvia: There’s a lot of like, mulled wine here.
Keith: Ew, mold wine?
Sylvia: Mulled!
Dre: M-U-L-L-E-D.
Keith: Oh, mulled. I’m sorry, I knew the whole time it was mulled.
Dre: Aw…
Sylvia: You fucker.
Dre: Um Art? Is it more fun if Claxton knows or doesn’t know?
Art: I think it’s more fun if Claxton doesn’t know. 
Dre: Okay. Because my pitch for that would be that like, like you said this is basically a marriage of appearances. And so, Claxton’s just not home a lot and so Henrietta is just doing whatever.
Art: Yeah, late nights at the office.
Dre: Mhm.
Art: Doing bad police things.
Sylvia: I have um, two suggestions for possible like, witnesses to the party night that these two are having.
Dre: Sure.
Sylvia: One is Mosie, who’s just kind of like, would be in the same sort of like social strata, et cetera. And then if we just wanna make things more complicated down at the, down at Cascade’s Thumb, Giovanni Jasper could also see them while they’re out? Like while he’s doing rounds or something?
Art: Ohh…
Dre: Aw, yeah!
Art: That’s good.
Sylvia: I’m gonna, I wanna…I’m gonna pick a card—I might look at these face cards down here for, see if there’s a Giovanni Jasper in here. ‘Cause I like the name so much I want him to be important.
Keith: Uh, Jasper?
Sylvia: Yeah. Anyway, not my card, which…
Dre: No. I definitely like the idea of Mosie being there because Mosie is just there. [chuckles] And yes, I like the idea of this just further complicating things within the police force. And having Giovanni Jasper be another…
Sylvia: It probably doesn’t help your authority when someone knows that your wife’s got a lava cocaine habit.
Dre: Mhm.
Art: Prolly not. Yeah.
Sylvia: I put a, I put a potential face underneath Giovanni Jasper. ‘Cause I was like, that guy looks like…[Dre: Oh yeah.] Detective-y.
Art: Sure, yeah, love it.
Sylvia: Alright, um, if we’re solid with that I think we can keep rolling?
Dre: Let’s go.
Sylvia: Okay, Keith, this next one’s for you.
Keith: Um, alright. Little card. Bigger card. “A dignitary from an isolated culture makes a striking debut in society. What opportunity do you see in them?”
Sylvia: Oh!
Art: [chuckling] Maybe they wanna buy some stock.
Keith: Yeah they wanna buy some…[laughs] Um, dignitary from an isolated culture…it’s tough, because we’re the isolated culture. 
Sylvia: Uh, this is true. But…
Keith: Although I guess if you’re an isolated culture, [cross] every other culture is isolated.
Sylvia: [cross] Everybody’s isolated culture, yeah.
Keith: I think um, this is tough. I wonder if maybe this would be a better question for someone else considering I’m on the lam, kind of.
Sylvia: Fair.
Keith: Or maybe this is my step back in, I’ll say, y’know, I don’t know if anybody else has any immediate thoughts with their character, I’ll say the sorts of things I was thinking where like, someone introduces like, whatever their culture uses for money instead of, uh what we use, which is like, just proximity to and ownership of a, basically a lava mine.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Um, and someone comes and is like, we have like, gold. [Sylvi chuckles] And uh, I could double down on sort of running a sort of investment thing by using something, by actually backing things with a currency that someone else in the world values. So it’s not tied to our economy.
Art: Sure.
Sylvia: That’s like a way for you to get out of this debt.
Art: That’s a way for you to get back out of these scam allegations, to show up with a completely new currency. 
Keith: But look at it, it’s g— look at it!
Sylvia: I mean listen, if it’s shiny enough I feel like the idiots that inhabit our society, uh, that are like yeah I love my volcano land.
Keith: It helps that it’s a new type of rock.
Art: Sure.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: So it’s not that, it’s not that foreign. It’s like, yeah I can get behind really highly valuing a rock.
Sylvia: Especially if it’s a rock never before seen on this island.
Keith: I wanna just maybe fact-check that we’ve not talked about having gold.
Sylvia: I feel like we’ve mostly talked about obsidian, as being the very precious…
Keith: Yeah. Because it’s self-generating, so the people who have access to it, like. All they have to do is live in their volcano and it makes obsidian for them.
Sylvia: Mhm.
Keith: I mean, I’m fine with my gold idea and trying to like, sell the people of Oligo on gold, and then to try to like, get out of my debts.
Sylvia: I think that is a really like, fun turn for the conman character. To be like, yeah but look at this gold!
Keith: Look at this gold!
Sylvia: Just like, turning—
Art: But it’s real gold, it’s not, it’s all…
Keith: [cross] It’s real gold yeah.
Sylvia: [cross] It’s real gold, yeah! That’s the thing!
Keith: I think it’s also, it’s inherently funny having to like, sell people on the idea of gold since gold has been so valuable to us for so long.
Sylvia: I mean, it’s called the gold standard for a reason right? Yeah no, I’m so good with that.
Keith: Alright, that’s me, that’s all I got, that’s all I need to have.
Sylvia: Yeah. Hell yeah.
Dre: Dat’s me.
Sylvia: We’re truckin’.
Keith: Doin’ it fast!
Sylvia: My turn…okay. There we go. Yo. “Someone powerful is deposed. How does the removal change your society? What opportunity does this provide you?” This is big, huh?
Keith: That is big.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: Going through the characters that we have established so far, both in like major names and also sort of like minor names ones, or not even named ones. My immediate response was to be this general that we’ve mentioned a couple times. The one who, who was sort of supplying Cascade mili— not military, police force with military equipment and stuff like that as well as the one who sort of fucked over Vug. And the reason why they came to mind for that was like, they’ve been going around getting, they were the spokesperson for the Ponzi scheme and I don’t think people tend to like, look very fondly upon that.
Art: Yeah people don’t like that.
Sylvia: Generally speaking. Y’know this might be like, huh. The problem is, I started thinking about this and I was like, well what opportunity does this provide me? And uh, it’s not really an opportunity for me. Um, no…Here’s an idea. Which is that, the like, I dunno. Stop me if this doesn’t make sense with like, the stuff we’ve laid out, but I was thinking that because this particular general is forced to retire or like, I don’t know. Disgraced or whatever, um, the power across the different volcanoes is a little less…like the military across the different volcanoes isn’t necessarily answering to the same guy anymore. Where like, things feel less centralized because of this and like, because of…I don’t know, maybe I’m wording this wrong, but I’m just thinking about her using her network of like, making specific transports and like specific zeppelins and stuff that are, like, the movement of soldiers between different places that they need to be as opposed to the old way of doing things, which was like, the forces on this spire handled what happened there. And like, it kind of ties into getting more executive power under Cascade’s Thumb and stuff like that. But if I’m kind of like…does this work for anybody I guess is what I’m saying here? Am I cooking at all here, guys? Or should I go a different direction…
Dre: Yeah.
Art: Yeah!
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre: No, I’m letting you cook.
Sylvia: Cool, cool. Yeah, ‘cause I think that the logical, uh, expansion of Gabrielle’s business is after transporting, after and while transporting the people who are the laborers around this island, she is also now importing and exporting the security for the, basically the people keeping them in check.
Keith: Well, hey, if the Laze are gonna be somewhere, you gotta have police watching ‘em.
Sylvia: Exactly!
Art: Yeah.
Dre: [cross] True. Yeah.
Keith: [cross[ They’ll be stealing, and, y’know.
Sylvia: There’s been so much crime on the isle of Oligo lately. I mean, look at what happened to general what’s-his-name, the corruption is rampant! If it’s among the Born Warm, it’s definitely running roughshod through those Laze. Me when I’ve got the munchies, also going roughshod through some Lay’s. [Keith and Art laugh] But yeah, I think that this is a huge boost to business. Like, it’s gone from being something that’s just sort of sustaining itself to being like, oh yeah you need…there’s an emergency and you’re trying to call in, your like, your favor with the favor with the military police and stuff and get them over there? Yeah, hire one of Gabby’s zeppelins. It’ll get them there in no time, they’ll squash that peasant rebellion no problem. I think that’s it. If my math is right, we should have one more round through, like one card for each of us, and then end of the act. Give or take a card or two. So Art, this next one’s for you. Oh…
Art: Another year’s passed. Wow, it’s been so many years.
Sylvia: Years have passed. Y’know? We’ve said at least three, you know?
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Wouldn’t it be wild if we got all three Knives in a row and it was just like, [chuckling] [cross] we have to jump back in, to a decade.
Sylvia: [cross] The forced time skip.
Keith: Are we sticking with three for each, and it’s been about nine years since the start of the act, or?
Sylvia: I’m fine with that if you guys are.
Dre: Yeah that sounds good.
Art: Yeah, and twelve years since the end of the previous? 
Keith and Sylvia: Yeah.
1:51:54 - Eleventh Card
Art: “Answer as the Knife: Years pass. You determine a path to return to society. What opening will give you opportunity to escape?” Maybe it’s this quote-unquote ‘crime wave.’
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Art: Y’know? The, the aristocracy are buying into its own hype. And allocating its resources toward these, you know, overblown problems and you know, a new magic rock energy magnate just sort of shows up on the scene.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: I fuck with that. It’s the perfect way to slip back into like, enough time has passed where nobody would recognize you, and also you’ve got a thing that they need.
Art: Yeah. Rolling in on your electric speedboat.
Sylvia: Yeah! God damn, they would go fucking crazy. [Keith chuckles]
Dre: It’s true.
Art: Oh yeah.
Sylvia: When they saw that. Like that is such a fucking entrance to make.
Art: No lava involved.
Keith: Does he need a new name?
Sylvia: Oh, yeah he probably does need some sort of pseudonym.
Art: Yeah.
Keith: So, I put Caldera Basalt into an anagram maker just for fun, [Sylvia: Okay?] the number one entry: Alabaster Clad. 
Dre: Oh my god, sick!
Art: Ohhhhhh!
Sylvia: [clapping] That’s so good! That’s SO good! Showing up in all white. Dripped out head to toe. [Keith laughs]
Art: And it sounds like a fancy pan.
Dre: That’s true.
Sylvia: I love it. I’m writing Alabaster Clad down. 
Dre: Yeah, Gordon Ramsay would totally sell me an Alabaster Clad pan.
Keith: Can you believe that I put in Caldera Basalt into an anagram maker and the first thing is a rock name?
Sylvia: I love it. I’m so happy. 
Keith: It’s unbelievable. What a…what…it’s fate.
Art: And just like, I’m Alabaster Clad and I’m here to talk to you about power. 
Keith: Whoa.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Keith: This guy fucks. [Dre and Art laugh]
Sylvia: This guy definitely fucks! This is the biggest chad the island has ever seen. [cross] Does he have like—
Dre: [cross] I heard this guy fucks Eliza Cinder.
Sylvia: I mean nobody knows that, but he has.
Dre: He has.
Sylvia: Does he— has his appearance changed— like he’s aged, obviously. [cross] Any like, he doing anything to hide his face at all? 
Keith: [cross] Does he have a cool island beard?
Sylvia: A beard? Big island beard?
Keith: Yeah cool island beard.
Art: Yeah, cool island beard.
Dre: Oh god yeah, what if he has a big huge white beard? And that’s why he’s Alabaster Clad.
Sylvia: Oh my g— his hair went white real early when he was on the island. Yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: Just going through these 325 anagram maker results, and it’s really funny because one of the words you can make from, uh, Caldera Basalt is ‘arse.’ There’s a lot of stuff, there’s a lot of—
Sylvia: Oh no.
Dre: A lot of booty stuff?
Keith: Arse ballad cat. Ballad sack tear. 
Art: Arse ballad cat is a good one I think.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Is there more to the, this stuff? Or are we satisfied with the answer for this Knife cue? Art, I know it’s your card, so you kinda get final say here. 
Art: I think we’re good, I think we have a good hook here.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: It’s exciting to have him like, back, you know? The boy is back in town, as they might say.
Dre: Yeah. [guitar noises]
Sylvia: Dre, your turn.
Dre: Sure.
Sylvia: Wow, fuckin’ great. Uh, go ahead. You wanna read it? [wheeze]
Dre: Sure. “Political unrest is rife. What are people protesting about? How do you exploit their anger?” Hmm. I don’t know. I don’t know how a person who, uh, who is trying to build their fortune off of eliminating jobs takes advantage of political unrest. 
Sylvia: I mean to be fair, it doesn’t necessarily mean you’re taking advantage of the political unrest of the Laze. [Dre: That’s true.] It could be taking advantage of the Born Warm’s reaction to the unrest.
Dre: That’s true. That is true. What do we think people are protesting about?
Sylvia: Um, I mean, I gestured at the health problems starting to be a thing, a way more rampant thing, for like, workers because of the rail system that I’ve been using. I think also just the way that we’ve been describing this economy it does sound like tings are just getting worse and worse for the Laze while the Born Warm are doing their fuckin’ like, speculative lava trading and whatever the fuck Vug was doing, like…[Dre laughs] Very much like up in gilded towers while everybody else is toiling way in goddamn literal volcanoes. Literal lava flows.
Art: Yeah for sure.
Dre: Yeah. Um, okay. I think health stuff is good. I think that is, I mean, I don’t think heath stuff is good, but. [cross] I think that is a, that is a good idea.
Sylvia: [cross] [chuckles] We know what you mean! 
Dre: As to why people would be protesting.
Keith: Sorry, I’m busy tweeting out ‘Dre thinks that it’s good when people are sick.’
Dre: [cross] That’s true. That’s what I said, word for word.
Keith: [cross] I’m sending the tweet right now…
Dre: Um, how do you exploit their anger…is it…[sigh] I almost feel like this is being to obvious, but it’s, you know, it’s going to the other Born Warms and being like, hey I’ve been working on this thing and if you can just sign a contract you don’t even have to pay me anything, you just wanna give me shares in your company. Including all these other people into the idea of like, oh we can just automate all of this. We don’t have to worry about like placating people’s health problems because we won’t need them sooner rather than later. I mean it’s been nine years. I imagine that there has been some technological advancements. In terms of automation.
Sylvia: Yeah. I mean if you’re, if this has been your goal the entire time, I think it would just be honest to say that you’ve made some sort of advancing towards it.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Mhm.
Sylvia: Yeah, I think that the, so it’d be the Born Warm buying into the automation more? Is sort of…cool. Yeah, why would they need to worry about their worker’s health if they’re just replacing them with automatic ones?
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. If we’re feeling, are you feeling satisfied with that?
Dre: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Sylvia: Okay cool. Um, Keith, this next one is for you.
Keith: You got it. 
Sylvia: [mumbling] Lemme…enlarge…oh, nope, Roll20, be nice to me…there we go. Wow.
Keith: “You use your position to exploit somebody. What do you take from them? Why can’t they stop you?” Aw, that’s a great question. I feel like I’ve had a lot of ups and downs this arc. You know, I think that um, maybe there’s, oh. Well what’s my position? That’s a, that is now, that’s a good question.
Sylvia: That is a good question.
Keith: What is my position? I’m having difficulty answering it because my position has changed a lot, but we’re at a time jump so I can use that to my advantage I guess. [Sylvia: Yeah.] Um, years have passed. Okay, so it’s been nine years since that first financial crime [chuckling] that I committed. [Dre chuckles] Uh, and it’s been three years since the gold stuff. So I think that that stuff is going well, and I’ve paid back my debts and people are using gold as a currency. It’s very funny to like, go from doing like, going from like running a crypto scam to like, having a gold standard. It’s sort of like everything happening in reverse. [chuckles]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: So I guess, you know I would love to exploit…god, I can never remember where my Miro tab is. Okay here we go. Um, what’s going on with the general right now?
Sylvia: I mean, he’s, in my mind, disgraced and shit now.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: He’s just selling car insurance.
Sylvia: Damn. With Shaq!
Keith: I wasn’t sure how disgraced. But yeah, probably. Probably too disgraced to be useful. 
Sylvia: Yeah, I mean he might have connections that you could use, but it feels like the way I kinda set it up was that his reputation got really hit.
Keith: Yeah. Um…
Art: Can you really be too disgraced to be useful anymore? I mean…[Keith chuckles]
Sylvia: That is a good point.
Keith: It’s kind of a relief honestly. Is it not a relief, Art, do you think?
Sylvia: Eh…
Art: It depends which side you’re on. 
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. I would like to not be blackmailed. Um, sorry this is…
Sylvia: Yeah, most people are on that side.
Keith: Yeah. Um, this is taking a while to think of a good thing. Um, what do I want, I want more gold. I want a volcano. Do I have a volcano at this point? I’ve gotta have—
Sylvia: I would be— I would think at this point, with the like, twelve year span [Keith: Yeah.] that we have established this being, I think we could say you’ve got a volcano now. The way I’ve been thinking is that-
Keith: First Dormant to be relit in decades or something.
Sylvia: Yeah. I feel like people will go crazy for that, y’know? Like…
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Sylvia: Gonna be on the cover of…Rock magazine. Couldn’t think of a word…
Keith: [laughing] Rock magazine.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Y’know, it’s one of those things that like, the technical possibility of it happening is one of those, y’know, one of those things that helps keep order. Y’know, the idea that someone could get a volcano is like, a huge thing in keeping the Laze where they are. By being like, yeah yeah, it could happen to you. Um, but of course it almost never does, and if someone who’s not Born Warm gets a volcano it’s probably someone who was Born Warm. And so I think that probably Vug is exploiting the newly out-of-work Laze who have been replaced by the automatons. They can’t say no because they need work, they need money, and what I take from them, this is kind of abstract…I need to set off, I need to find my own gold mine.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Because right now I’m operating as a like, as a bank, essentially, converting money to and from gold via an overseas supply of gold. But we need our own gold. And so I’ve got like, hey yeah come work for me, it’s gonna be eight months, you’ll get paid when you get back for the whole eight months.
Sylvia: Oh my fucking god. That’s the, that’s the Vug charm on that one right there. Yeah, you’ll get paid when you get back.
Keith: Well what are you gonna do, spend, y’know, there’s nothing to buy in the gold mines! So you’ll get paid when you get back.
Sylvia: That’s a good point.
Keith: And if you don’t—
Sylvia: Oh no guys, there was a cave-in on the last day…
Keith: If you don’t come back, we’ll send it to your families…
Sylvia: Ohh...
Keith: Everything will be taken care of, don’t worry.
Dre: It’s fiiiine.
Keith: So that’s how that goes. The end.
Sylvia: Okay. Fuck yeah. Okay! Hell yeah. Hell yeah hell yeah.
Keith: Took a minute to get there, but we got there.
Sylvia: Just make a note that you’ve got this gold expedition thing going. Wait, am I wrong? Have we…
Keith: Have we?
Sylvia: [mumbling] Have we played all, why is this not…
Dre: Wuh-woh.
Sylvia: All cards are in play. There are no cards to shuffle. That is the end of the act.
Dre: [cross] Oh hell yeah. Perfect.
Keith: [cross] Oh, that’s the end of the act. Look at that.
Sylvia: I was wrong, I miscalculated, it was one less card than I thought. Um, okay! Well damn!
Art: Wait no, I have a card.
Sylvia: You do?
Art: We’re in Snares?
Sylvia: No no no, we’ve been done Snares.
Keith: We’re in Vines.
Sylvia: We’re in Vine— I accidentally hid Vines and then unhid it, so it went to the bottom of the thing because—
Art: How do I get this back, can you put it back?
Sylvia: Yeah yeah yeah. Um, I will just…how do I…
Dre: Wait, is this the last card? Is this the last card?
Sylvia: [cross] No no no, we’re done now. 
Keith: [cross] No no, that’s a Snares card.
Sylvia: That is a Snares card. We’re done for the night. This is the end of the act.
Art: We did it.
Sylvia: Yeah! I think that’s a good point to take a break.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: We can be back next time with the Snares act. And maybe even the Knives, we’ll see. Um, we are, at the very least, halfway— over halfway through this, when you consider world creation and stuff, [cross] and I’m really enjoying it.
Keith: [cross] Oh yeah, world creation took hours.
Sylvia: World creation took a really long time, is something that we need to remember. Um, yeah does anybody wanna, do we have anything we wanna plug before the end of the episode? Once again, notquitereal.bandcamp.com for the music,  friendsatthetable.shop for any merch, mediaclub.plus for Media Club Plus. 
Keith: Yeah, listen to Media Club Plus, it’s been going really well, we are into some of the best stuff in the show right now. Um, in the Yorknew City arc.
Sylvia: Yeah. This might, by the time this comes out, that stuff might even all be like, out, like published even.
Keith: Oh, that’ll probably be aired, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Check out the, make sure you’re following us on Twitch and Youtube so you can catch the streams and stuff that we do, those are always good. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: And check out the Youtube as well, because we post those up there.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Alright. I think that’s gonna do it for next time— uh, for this time. We’ll see you next time for more betrayal, conspiracy, and terrible volcano magnates. 
Keith: Terrible! Just terrible.
Sylvia: Terrible.
[“Eyes of a Killer” by Jack de Quidt begins playing]


________________
[1] E.g. SP Crater, Arizona.
[2] E.g. Fort Rock, Oregon.
[3] View of Mt. Teide on Tenerife Island, Spain.
[4] View of Three-Fingered Jack, Oregon, ft. some nice goats.
[5] Photograph of a cow-dung bomb from Mt. Kīlauea, Hawaii. Cooler than it sounds.
[6] View of a hornito cave on La Réunion. Also cooler than it sounds.