Eyes of a Killer 05
Transcriber: logan
Opening Recap        1
Introduction        2
Fears [0:12:00]        10
First Card (Act IV) [0:19:09]        15
Second Card [0:24:45]        19
Third Card [0:31:36]        24
Fourth Card [0:34:24]        26
Fifth Card [0:40:51]        31
Sixth Card [0:45:31]        34
Seventh Card [0:48:36]        36
Eighth Card [0:52:00]        39
Ninth Card [1:00:50]        47
Tenth Card [1:03:21]        49
Eleventh Card [1:11:08]        54
Twelfth Card [1:13:28]        55
Thirteenth Card [1:17:08]        58
Final Cards [1:23:28]        63
Opening Recap
[“Eyes of a Killer” by Jack de Quidt begins playing]
Sylvia: If there’s something that could power both my zeppelins and my shitty carts that the workers are always suffering in, I don’t know! Maybe it could be worth it even if it does upset the entire natural order that has given me everything that I’ve wanted in my life.
Dre (as Eliza): Claxton. You need to arrest that man.
Art (as Claxton): For what?
Dre (as Eliza): It’s Basalt. I don’t know how, I don’t know how he got back here, I don’t know how he left the island, I don’t know how he lived. It’s him. It’s Basalt. He’s back. He’s going to ruin everything.
Sylvia (as Gabrielle:) Oh, Eliza! Are you getting okay in your, y’know, older years? That seems a bit irrational. 
Sylvia (as Basalt): On this quaint little island of yours, everything seems so antiquated these days. I just was wondering if, if there was any interest in sort of bringing your men into the modern day, so to speak.
Art (as Claxton): Why, do you got some sort of electrified police force in mind?
Keith (as Sanidine): What is this? What’s happening here?
Sylvia (as Basalt): Ah, Mr. Vug! Wonderful to see you! 
Keith (as Sanidine): What are you doing?
Sylvia (as Basalt): Oh, I believe in the business we call it a real estate acquisition.
Keith (as Sanidine): This is my mountain. I signed for this mountain.
Art (as the realtor): Oh, Mr. Vug. Someone should have called from the office—
Keith (as Sanidine): What is this, did you double cross me? You sold to this man?
Art (as the realtor): I don’t think you understand how real estate transactions work—
Keith (as Sanidine): [shouting] This my mountain! This is five hundred years in the making!
Introduction
Sylvia: Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast focused on critical worldbuilding, smart characterization, and fun interactions between good friends. I am your host today, Sylvi Bullet, where we are continuing and hopefully, we really should be finishing our game of the Slow Knife.
Art: Ohh.
Sylvia: With me, as always, [chuckles] who you just heard, Art Martinez-Tebel!
Art: Hey, you can find me all over the internet. If you’re here you probably know. And yeah, I think we need to finish this, this has uh, this has become a concern.
Sylvia: Y’know, it’s not like we had a season finale and then travel and then… [chuckles]
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: Like, we were fine, y’know? Nobody got sick…
Keith: Nobody had a baby.
Art: I haven’t said anything about the baby in anything that didn’t get edited out, so, also a baby?
Sylvia: Yeah, wh— Is this gonna be the baby reveal? [laughs] For the fans?
Keith: I love it.
Art: Uh, probably. I mean, yeah. 
Sylvia: I do love that.
Art: I said something on a Gathering Information but it got cut.
Sylvia: Oh…
Keith: Wow. Do you think that was intentional, that was targeted?
Art: It wasn’t interesting. [Keith chuckles]
Sylvia: I think it’s just in the interest of privacy, is what I would assume.
Art: Yeah, I mean we’re really struggling with what the right call on that front is. [chuckles]
Dre: Fair.
Sylvia: Yeah, no, I get you. 
Art: ‘Cause I think it’s impossible to like, keep it secret?
Sylvia: No, like, I don’t think you can not mention that you’re a parent.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s a huge lifestyle change!
Keith: I mean it’d be really funny if you, on a Gathering Information was like, and I'm announcing it here, that I’m about to be a father, and then Ali cut that out.
Sylvia: That is really funny, yeah.
Keith: That would be an outrageous affront.
Sylvia: Also with us today, Andrew Lee Swan.
Dre: Oh, hey, I forgot that we didn’t… [laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah we gotta do, we’re still in the middle of the intro.
Dre: Hey, you can find me on Twitter @Swandre3000.
Sylvia: And last but certainly not least, Keith J. Carberry.
Keith: Hi, my name is Keith Carberry, you can find me on Twitter @KeithJCarberry, you can find the let’s plays that I do at youtube.com/RunButton, you can find Media Club Plus, you can find three of us on Media Club Plus, where we’re talking about Hunter X Hunter, we’re in the Greed Island arc, it’s been really fun… We’ve got an episode, I don’t know when this is dropping. There’s episodes every other week on Tuesday.
Sylvia: Biweekly.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: One of the meanings of that word, ‘cause it’s got two of them.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Right. Twice a month.
Art: Yeah, not twice a week, that’s frankly insulting that you would think that.
Dre: That’s a lot of anime.
Keith: [chuckling] It would be so…it would be way too much. [Art and Sylvi chuckle] We’d be done. We’d be basically done.
Sylvia: We’d be done, yeah. We would be done.
Dre: Yeah, we would be done. We would be done like a month ago.
Sylvia: We’d be doing one of the many other things we’ve talked about doing. People can think about what those might be. Today, like I said earlier, we’re playing Slow Knife, which is by…actually, no. I'm sorry to interrupt the plug for the game developer, but I gotta look after my people first. If you like the music that came before this episode, go to notquitereal.bandcamp.com and pick it up. Jack did a great job.
Dre: Mhm.
Art: That’s what Jack’s always saying, that we spend too much time on the…
Sylvia: On the game?
Art: On the games.
Sylvia: Yeah no, for sure. Listen, it’s just me— I just know that if I start introducing the game I’m gonna forget, and I don’t wanna forget.
Keith: Every season Jack goes, how ‘bout all music this time? What about no game?
Art: Yeah, what if it’s just a meditation this time. And I know Jack—
Sylvia: Yeah. And I go, Jack, you know what an album is, right?
Art: Jack puts on this very friendly front—
Sylvia: Ugh, diva.
Art: But behind the scenes Jack is bitterly jealous of anything that takes attention away from the music.
Dre: Oh yeah. So mean.
Keith: And then when Sylvi says ‘you know what an album is right’ Jack says no and they mean it. They don’t know what an album is.
Sylvia: It’s really fucked up. Love you Jack. [Dre wheezes] We’re playing the Slow Knife by Mousehole Press, you can find it on mouseholepress.itch.io, written by Jack Harrison, I think I’ve said the full credits every time we’ve done this and I forgot to pull it up this time and I’m really sorry about that, everybody. I had a hard drive failure, so I don't know where my files are. But it’s been a wonderful time. We are here on the isle of Oligo, that we named halfway into this game, the volcanic lavapunk dystopia that we’ve crafted together and, my friends today we will also need to craft together what happened last time in our memories. ‘Cause it’s been a minute, and so I hope people can forgive us being a little spotty at first with some of the details and if there’s a slip up here and there, um, canon is for weaklings. Go look at the Mad Max series, y’know?
Art: Yeah.
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: I’m nodding. So yeah. Last time, the main crux of the act, we played the third act, Snares, and the big thing is that Basalt Caldera, now under the name Alabaster Clad, with a big white bushy beard and hair, has come back to Oligo and reentered society doing both sort of a Quattro Bajeena and also Bruce Wayne situation. He’s kind of Batman. He brought electricity too, he brought these magic electrical rocks that are threatening to overturn the lava dominance in technology here, and we all just— some of us got charmed by him, some of us hate him, was it Art, your character who got rescued by him, or was it Keith?
Art: I think it was Keith.
Sylvia: Oh, I think it was Keith! Yeah, ‘cause it was a riot.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah. Oh yeah, and he picked you up in his Batmobile.
Keith: There was a riot at like, the bank where I’m doing complicated financial crimes. We were talking a lot about, we’ve got drones now? Is that true? Do we have like, police drones?
Sylvia: I think there is some sort of mechanized police force, yeah.
Keith: Oh. I think that the Knife was selling crystal drone technology.
Sylvia: Yeah he was.
Dre: That sounds right.
Sylvia: He is selling weapons to the police. Y’know.
Dre: A very ethical billionaire.
Sylvia: The most ethical billionaire. [Art chuckles]
Art: Y’know. They can be the protagonist of the story and not be a good person.
Dre: It’s true. We do it all the time.
Keith: But there was really a switch that flipped at some point, where he goes from being like a sort of aggrieved post-bourgeious man of the people to living on an island to coming back as like, fucked up Batman.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Art: I’m comfortable with this.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeahyeahyeah.
Sylvia: Me too. I think it’s fine. Listen. We never said the Knife had to be a good guy.
Dre: No.
Keith: Right, all he has to do is kill five people.
Sylvia: Yeah, he just has to be less bad.
Art: He just has to be slightly less bad than the worst people we could come up with.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: He doesn’t even have to be less bad, he just has to kill them. That’s not even—
Art: I guess, yeah.
Keith: There’s nowhere that says he has to be less bad. Just that they have to be bad and dead.
Art: Fuckin’ A.
Dre: The only other thing I remember is that I remember my character Eliza is convinced that Basalt Caldera is the Knife. But nobody believes her.
Sylvia: Oh, I like that a lot. And then I think my thing was, if I’m remembering right, I was starting to… Was I getting involved in business stuff with the Knife or was I funding more of Vug’s stuff? I know I was funding Vug’s stuff, but…
Keith: I was getting involved with it, which I think means you by default were.
Sylvia: That tracks for me.
Keith: And I think that there was, I remember a conversation about, Dre, is it Eliza that has the transportation thing or…
Dre: No, that’s Sylvi’s character.
Sylvia: Yep.
Keith: Yeah, okay, that’s the thing is you were sort of like playing both sides of having your highways to…
Sylvia: Yeah, I had my highways for the poors…
Keith: Yeah, you had highways for the poors and balloons for the rich.
Sylvia: Yeah, literally, yeah. I think that is most of my deal. I think there was some pettiness between Eliza and I last time at a party.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Mhm.
Sylvia: That whole World’s Fair thing ended up being a big focal point. 
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: And then…did we…?
Keith: Oh, almost the entire Snares happened there.
Sylvia: Yeah. Oh, the other big thing is that the Knife has a love interest who is the Vicki Vale, literally, Alana Irestone, reporter for the Paper of Record. ‘Does a lot of work on gold/electricity beats’ is what’s written here. [Dre laughs] Love that. Okay. Is there anything else we need to— are there any other details we think we need to land, figure out before we get going? There’s some minor characters here, like Slate, I don’t remember if we decided Slate’s still alive or not. I think Crust might have came back too? 
Dre: Oof.
Sylvia: I don’t know. And then I know there’s Giovanni Jasper, the evil cop who burnt the Magoo family. RIP Mack Magoo. Twice baked, burnt too soon.
Keith: [chuckles] Refried.
Sylvia: Refired. Okay, I’m gonna give a little spiel about the way that Knives works ‘cause it’s a little different just in terms of like… Not even a little different, there’s something that’s unclear about it, or that I thought was unclear about it when I played it the first time, and that is your character can die or be taken out of the story at any point. Remember how when we first were talking about the rules, there is the Conspirator card, and you turn it over when you’re done, when your character’s out of the game. You can see them down at the bottom of our Miro board.
Dre: Ohh…
Fears [0:12:00]
Sylvia: It says, ‘In Act IV’— sorry let me start from the top. ‘The Knife is coming for you. In Act IV, when your part in the revenge is complete, flip this card.’ And then we can get into what it says on the other side afterwards, but it concludes your Conspirator’s story. There’s no prompt on the actual Knives cards that say this is when your part in the revenge is completed, it’s up to you to decide when you think is your character’s curtain call. I remember the first time I played it with my partner, we were a little confused because we thought that the cards were gonna be like, you’re dead now! But no. Because why would they, it’s a story game. But also we played it all in one session and we, you get a little delirious at the end of a long game.
Dre: Sure.
Art: What’s that like?
Sylvia: No idea.
Dre: Yeah, I have no idea.
Sylvia: Hey, go listen to the PALISADE finale, everybody. [Dre snickers]
Art: And try to isolate when you think each of us becomes delirious.
Sylvia: Yeah, try to isolate when you think the end of a session is too. That was my big thing about Knives, just want it to be clear. 
Keith: We can die at any time.
Sylvia: Yeah, whenever you think is appropriate for your character to be taken out of the story, and it doesn’t need to be dead either, it can be imprisoned, it can be deposed, it can be…blah blah blah blah blah.
Dre: Exiled in shame
Sylvia: Yeah.
Art: Does the game end when we’re all out?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Art: Okay.
Sylvia: I’m pretty sure. I’m gonna double check that, but yeah.
Keith: And what happens if, let’s say that I’m out, my character’s not in, am I just sort of a, you just like kinda hang out and contribute Knife stuff?
Sylvia: A little bit. The way it works, so it says on the other side of the cards, you may ask questions of others but do not draw more cards.
Dre: Oh, okay.
Sylvia: Basically, you can be involved in scenes, but you’re not pulling new prompts for your character because they’re gone. But everybody should feel encouraged to still stay involved in other people’s scenes if it’s just like, throwing out ideas or whatever. 
Keith: What if I died here on this one, that’d be so funny. [laughs]
Art: That would be so funny. I don’t want you to have doubts about that.
Keith: Mhm. No, I was confident.
Art: We could all die right here, we could be done in 25 minutes.
Sylvia: Yeah, who knows?
Keith: Who knows.
Art: I don't even know what this card says.
Sylvia: I’ll read this. ‘The Knife’s plot sharpens to a point. Everyone answers: What do you most fear to lose?’ And then some endgame stuff that I already talked about. I mean I think my answers, it might be a little straightforward and a little simplistic. But it’s like, the family prestige, y’know? Like I feel like maybe, I don’t know if the highway experiment is really working. It seems like people are really upset about it. At least the working people are. And then on top of that, I’m giving money to the guy who keeps doing Ponzi schemes? [Art laughs] And it’s not like a great look for the ol’ Feldspar clan. And it’s kinda like, unclear if it’s the money or the name that I’m more worried about losing the shine on, but, y’know. It’s been creepin’ up this past little while. Spinnin’ a lot of plates. And also, this fuckin’ weirdo and his goddamn electricity.
Dre: Mhm?
Art: Yeah.
Dre: The thing I fear, or that Eliza fears losing the most is the business. She does not give a shit about her name, or like the money she has on hand right now. But like, the business itself is where she sees the power.
Art: I think Claxton fears to lose his life. That Claxton does not believe you can stop being this super corrupt chief of police and just like, retire.
Dre: Man. If only it worked that way.
Sylvia: [chuckling] Yeah, if only!
Dre: If only there were consequences for our actions.
Art: Y’know. Try to be the change. [Sylvi laughs]
Dre: That’s beautiful.
Art: Which I wanna say, [chuckling] for the purposes of anyone who might listen to this, culturally, I do not mean to do murders. Don’t. Do murders.
Sylvia: Don’t do that, yeah.
Keith: Be the change means kill your problems with bees. Use bees to murder people.
Sylvia: Bee the change.
Keith: Bee the change.
Dre: Okay. Yeahyeahyeah. Bee: The change.
Art: Yeah. Art from Friends at the Table says: don’t murder.
Sylvia: This is consistent with Sangfielle, that was also you trying to get this message across.
Keith: [wheeze] You also killed your problems with bees.
Art: Yeah. Huh. [Keith laughs] Frankly, you should’ve all seen it coming.
Keith: Yeah. Vug’s biggest fear is the tenuous grasp that he has on becoming, on re-Borning Warm. Getting that mountain, becoming a noble family again, succeeding where, to like seal the deal on putting his family back on the map.
Sylvia: Okay. I mean if we’re all happy with that, I think we can—
Keith: Oh I just remembered what happened last time!
Sylvia: Hit me with it.
Keith: Vug had a mountain bought out from under him by the Knife.
Sylvia: Right, that was so funny! That was so funny!
Dre: Oh yeah! [Keith laughs] And your mom was there!
Sylvia: Yeah your mom was there!
Keith: My mom was there, yeah! [laughs]
Dre: God, how did we forget that?
Keith: And then he saved me from a mob.
Sylvia: Thank you so much for remembering that. Sanidine Vug, kinda my, not to play favorites, but kinda my favorite of our shitheads. Just what a worm. What a little rat.
Dre: Oh, he’s great. Yeahyeahyeah.
Keith: He’s shit, yeah.
Sylvia: I picture Walton Goggins in my head.
Keith: Oh yeah, Goggins is good.
Sylvia: He feels like a Goggins character.
Keith: He feels Goggins.
Dre: He’s Gogginin’.
Sylvia: Keith, are you ready for your card you pulled last time?
Keith: I am, I’m ready. I don’t think that I can change its layer though.
Sylvia: Okay. Oh no. Hold on.
Keith: [chuckles] You did it in the wrong order.
Sylvia: I did it super wrong. To front…there we go. Whoa…
First Card (Act IV) [0:19:09]
Keith: ‘An old friend betrays one of your darkest secrets. Who do they share it with? What did the Knife promise them in return?’ Huh. That’s a fun one because I feel like my activities have been so public recently and the Knife has really been on top of like, knowing where I’m going, what I’ve been up to. So I can come up with something, but if there’s someone who feels like they’ve got a dark secret, that they wanna hop in and have a dark secret revealed, then feel free.
Sylvia: I mean like…a lot of the dark secret stuff would probably have to do with the murder, right? 
Keith: Mhm. That makes sense. I guess we all kind of share that secret.
Sylvia: Yeah. It’s just like…
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: But, does the Knife already know? The Knife already knows that he was framed.
Sylvia: I think the implication is that the Knife knows he was framed and who’s responsible.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Dre: Do you have a secret stash of money somewhere that nobody else knows about?
Sylvia: Do you wanna pass it? You can pass it to a character if you think someone else…
Keith: I don’t want to foist this if no one feels like they have a secret, I’d rather invent a secret than force someone else to invent a secret. But if there’s another secret, if someone’s like oh I’ve got a secret, I’m happy to pass.
Sylvia: I don’t necessarily have an idea for the secret, I do have kind of a fucked up idea of who could be betraying you.
Keith: Okay, who could be betraying me?
Sylvia: It could be your mom. In return for the mountain.
Keith: Oh, she was just so charmed by…
Sylvia: Well no, what if the Knife offers your family the mountain that he bought?
Keith: In exchange for me…
Sylvia: Your downfall, yeah.
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Mm!
Sylvia: Like, it’s not necessarily getting passed over right away, but it’s like, yeah the ball will start rolling once Vug’s getting fuckin’ run out of town again.
Keith: Yeah. My worry is that is less of an insult to Vug, like I think that Vug is concerned about the family. 
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: And so it might be a partial success, and I don’t want him getting a partial success.
Sylvia: Maybe…it could be that colonel again.
Keith: The colonel?
Sylvia: Remember that shamed colonel that was in business with you? Am I misremembering completely? There was some military guy that was involved with the timeshare stuff.
Dre: Hmm. This sounds vaguely familiar.
Keith: Yeah, this sounds familiar.
Sylvia: It ruined him too. But I can’t remember if we killed him or not?
Keith: I think that we killed him.
Sylvia: I think we might have killed him, never mind.
Keith: I think that he’s, yeah I think that he’s dead.
Sylvia: Okay. I just don’t know your friends, man. [laughs]
Keith: Yeah, it’s a short list, and like…you three are on it.
Sylvia: I mean if you want one of us to betray you too, I’m happy to do that.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Y’know, I do want that, I want Sylvi, I want your character to betray me and I want it to be by being sick of the negative attention that my financial scheming has brought to you and you company, and what I want for you to do is sell the controlling share of my parts of your business to the Knife.
Sylvia: That’s fucking genius, Keith.
Dre: That rules.
Keith: And so that he owns, now, this business.
Sylvia: I adore that, dude! That rules!
Keith: There we go, we got there.
Sylvia: Yeah, no, ‘cause ‘what does the Knife promise me in return’ is a way out of this fuckin’ sinking ship.
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: No, that rules! Okay, hell yeah. I’m gonna write this down on the Miro board. Damn, hell yeah, hell yeah. Do you want that to be a scene, or do you wanna keep rolling with things?
Keith: Let’s keep rolling, and I don’t know if we— do we have a name for this like, Sanidine Industries, that sounds like a sleazy— Sanidine already sounds like such a bad, like it just has bad vibes, bad name vibes.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s an upsetting thing to see.
Keith: X. Sanidine Industries.
Sylvia: I sold a controlling share, right?
Keith: Yeah, yeah. And I’m fired, I’m out.
Sylvia: Wow.
Keith: I’m destroying the economy.
Sylvia: Yeah no, it’s, listen.
Keith: [chuckling] It’s so bad!
Sylvia: [laughs] You’re Bernie Madoff of lava land. [Dre laughs]
Keith: What if Bernie Madoff didn’t go to jail and was allowed to do like five or six other major crimes? What if like, uh, who’s the guy that just went to jail? Sam Bankman-Fried, what if Bernie Madoff just was also Sam Bankman-Fried at the same time?
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Keith: Instead of going to jail he became the crypto guy.
Sylvia: This sounds like a fucking nightmare. But yeah, that tracks. I think if we’re going with the Roll20 order, Art is next. Whoa!
Dre: Oh!
Art: Oh fuck.
Sylvia: That’s crazy!
Second Card [0:24:45]
Art: Um, okay. ‘Someone powerful tires of your excuses. How do they arrange your certain death? How long do you have?’
Keith: Oh my god. Wow, fears confirmed.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: Goddamn. Goddamn goddamn.
Art: Hmm…
Dre: I could see it being Eliza.
Art: Yeah, I’m thinking that too.
Sylvia: I think we did also mention that there is some sort of royal family. But I kind of, I do enjoy the conspirators eating each other alive vibe. Y’know?
Dre: Yeah, I mean, that’s the genre.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: I think that makes more sense?
Art: And it could be as simple as like, Eliza just stops not seeing Claxton’s shit for what it is.
Dre: What do you mean by that?
Art: Which is, you know, a pretty naked power grab that either has to escalate to controlling everything or end.
Dre: Mm. Like he doesn’t know his status.
Art: Yeah, ‘cause that’s it, like this is Claxton’s attempt to climb the ladder and sometimes people who are further up the ladder just push it over.
Dre: Mhm.
Art: And maybe that’s what this is. Especially someone who has the really good murder body disposal of lava harvesting, you know?
Dre: It’s true.
Sylvia: Damn, she’s gonna do him like she did her dad.
Art: Uh huh?
Keith: Ew. [laughs]
Sylvia: N— get your mind out of the gutter! 
Dre: Yeah.
Art: [cross] And like Claxton is also—
Sylvia: [cross] I’m talking like an old-timey detective! It’s a noir, see?
Art: Claxton can flip.
Keith: I just meant that killing someone is gross and blood is icky, so it’s actually you that was being gross. [Art laughs]
Dre: Damn. Fuckin’ got her. Light her ass up.
Sylvia: I’m ruined! [screams distantly] [Art and Keith laugh]
Dre: So I guess one of us is running this podcast now? [Sylvi laughs]
Art: Yeah, I hear the last host was ruined, so it's a little…
Keith: We do have a strict ‘no incest thoughts’ clause.
Sylvia: [still laughing] We need to move on! House of the Dragon, back soon! [Keith and Dre laugh] Holy shit.
Art: What a way to reveal our first sponsor.
Sylvia: Jesus christ! What were we, what were we talking about?
Art: Let me know if you don’t like this arranged death idea, but what if Eliza just like, faked break-ins? At the lava processing…
Keith: Oh like a robbery gone wrong thing?
Art: Yeah and like, you’re gonna have to come and investigate it, and Claxton’s like I’ll send my best people, and then like, no no, you have to come. And it’s gonna keep being a problem and then Claxton comes…
Keith: Oh I see, I thought this was a break-in at your house and then they kill you at your house and make it look like a robbery.
Art: No, I think it looks like an industrial accident.
Keith: Right, because it’s like, come to me because I need the chief of police, I’m very important, or the whatever you are.
Art: So I think like, how long does he have? I don’t know, a couple weeks?
Keith: Minutes? Oh sure, that.
Dre: Yeah.
Art: And whatever we decide in the course of these cards, it’s been a couple weeks, I’ll flip my card over.
Sylvia: Okay!
Dre: Do you wanna know ahead of time how you’re gonna die, like how I’m gonna kill you or do oyu want that to be a surprise? 
Sylvia: [laughs] Oh my god!
Art: Like me the player, or the character?
Dre: Yeah you the player.
Art: No, you can surprise me.
Dre: Okay, okay.
Art: Y’know, if that pleases you.
Keith: Have you got it already, Dre?
Dre: Oh yeah, I know.
Keith: Okay cool.
Sylvia: Dre knows every member of Friends at the Table’s exact time of death. And what date it will be on.
Keith: And method.
Sylvia: And method. I know what you meant by the way, when you said as the player, but it just made me think Art was asking if you know what time he died.
Keith: [laughs] Yeah, Dre calls it their death book.
Art: Oh, this is the right group to ask this question to. Well, this group plus Austin who’s not here. I’ve never watched Death Note.
Sylvia: Oh…
Dre: Neither have I.
Sylvia and Keith: Oh…
Art: Is it worth watching or at this point, or should at this point is that Media Club Plus season 6 or whatever?
Dre: And specifically you mean the live action Netflix adaptation, right? That’s the one you wanna watch?
Sylvia: I’ve actually heard good things.
Keith: Death Note is like, the most insane show of all time, I know that Sylvi loves it.
Sylvia: I do love it. I did a incomplete podcast about it when Emojidrome was still active with Morgan over there. We literally got right up to the finale and then that show went on hiatus. However, I don’t Death note holds up.
Art: Okay. Perhaps not worth a Media Club Plus season.
Sylvia: Oh! Hold on—
Keith: It is, it’s a fascinating show.
Sylvia: I would absolutely do a season of Media Club Plus on it because it is a fascinating show.
Keith: Yeah. It would also be pretty short, because there’s only like forty episodes or something.
Sylvia: I thought you were asking is it just worth watching in your free time. And to that I was just like, ah, you could just watch Heat instead.
Keith: It’s so amazingly squandered, they take all their most interesting ideas and do the dumbest shit with it, but it’s a really slow ramp down to insanity that I think is fun even if you think it’s bad.
Art: Alright, I’m sorry, we should not get on this digression.
Sylvia: Nah, no worries. Y’know, at the end of a thing, I’m sure it can be cut.
Keith: Leave it in. People need to know.
Sylvia: I’m trying to think of a world where I’ve done two Death Note podcasts now. What have I become… Okay, anyway…
Art: You don’t have to do the…
Dre: No, you’ve become your final form, Sylvi.
Sylvia: Yeah no, I have. No, if it’s happening, I would be there. Oh, I pulled a Knife card.
Keith: Call it Dearth Note ‘cause there’s nothing left to say about Death Note.
Art: Ayy. This is, we could start this next week.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah you don’t have anything going on, do you?
Sylvia: Nah you’re free. And probably will be for the next eighteen years. Okay. I pulled a Knife card and I’m gonna read that now.
Third Card [0:31:36]
Sylvia: Answer as the Knife: As your plans crescendo, you feel the weight of a future without purpose. What scares you most about outliving your revenge?
Art: Jesus. Most of these games don’t ask existential questions of you.
Sylvia: Yeah no, unfortunately, last act time.
Art: The weight of a future without purpose, it’s too real.
Sylvia: I’ve been coping with it for a while. Ho, it got too real. I think the big thing is the state of Oligo afterwards that’s also like a big worry. Is that like, this place is gonna undergo a change caused by both the actions of him, like him removing our little crew of shitheads, Conspirators is the word I couldn’t remember there. And, while doing so is industrializing this island in a very different way, has militarized the police while also being kind of a vigilante but not really? I think it just feels like after this is done everything could come crumbling down.
Keith: We’ve put the Knife in an interesting position where they’re not just taking revenge, but also replacing the hold that these people had on the nation with himself. And so, there’s kind of like a built-in, added future there but yeah, I totally see that part failing and like, y’know, I get my revenge but then this second part of the plan that we’ve kind of taken upon ourselves to put it in place fails. That makes a lot of sense.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s one of those things where it’s like, I’ve set up these dominoes to fall but I don’t know how many dominoes beyond what I’ve laid out there are. Are we happy with that to be my turn? I don’t know if there’s a scene to show his existential crisis that I can really do here.
Art: Yeah, it’s a hard ask.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s not exactly, y’know. Dre I believe that means it’s your turn. 
Dre: Yeah! [Art laughs]
Sylvia: Let me embiggen that for you…Oh wow!
Art: Oh wow.
Keith: Wow. Hey, wow.
Art: Wow. What?
Keith: Puzzle pieces.
Sylvia: Wait, this rules!
Fourth Card [0:34:24]
Art: You arrange to have someone quietly killed. How does the Knife foil your scheme? Who do they have murdered instead? Let’s see…
Art: It doesn’t have to be the same scheme.
Dre: No no no no no, yeah yeah yeah, it’s not gonna be Claxton. I’ve already got a different murder planned over there. Oh I know who it is. I know exactly who it is. Because I know, quote unquote, that Basalt Caldera is Alabaster Clad. And I want him to know that I know, and what better way to that than to kill his best friend Mosey?
Sylvia: Noooo!
Art: Oh shit!
Keith: Wait, but it’s fine. ‘Foil’ is right in there.
Dre: The Knife foils my scheme.
Sylvia: Right.
Art: Well I’m still surprised.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, y’know.
Art: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: Okay. Yeah, we can scream about that.
Sylvia: That was me on the little episode, in the TV show of this that’ll get made for sure, like oh no, the end of the episode reveal, I’m gonna kill Mosey! And then it comes in on, didn’t kill Mosey. So I was just being dramatic for that tension there.
Dre: I wonder, how does he foil my scheme? How would I kill Mosey? Hmm.
Sylvia: [chuckles]
Dre: [cross]  Well, ‘cause like I can’t—
Sylvia: [cross] Hmm. Can’t push a third person into the lava pit.
Dre: Well, yeah, Claxton makes it easy for me to kill him, ‘cause he’ll just come and hang out with me. I assume Mosey would not come hang out with me. Even just because, even if Mosey doesn’t know anything else that I’ve done, they know that I’m like Basalt’s ex. So they probably don’t care for me. I hire, I promise Luetta’s husband Steel a huge promotion if he will go kill Mosey. He is not a trained killer and is easily stopped by the Knife. Like I think it is, like this is probably the most Batman we’ve seen the Knife because it’s like the Knife appearing seemingly out of nowhere and knocking the gun out of Steel’s hand.
Keith: Cape? No cape?
Dre: What do you all think? Does the Knife have a cape?
Sylvia: The problem is because it’s an all white outfit, the cape might be a bit too stage magician.
Dre: Didn’t stop Moon Knight.
Sylvia: Yeah, but I don’t love Moon Knight.
Art: Moon Knight’s kinda stage magician.
Dre: That’s true.
Art: In presentation, yeah.
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: The cape could be white on the inside but black on the outside.
Sylvia: Oh…
Keith: I just brought it up because it’s the most Batman, and it’s famously one of his attributes.
Art: Has cape.
Keith: Has capes. Crusades in cape.
Dre: Oh, I know who they murder instead. If we wanna take a break from cape talk.
Sylvia: Yeah, sure. The cape— it’s Schrödinger’s cape. If you want there to be a cape, picture a cape.
Dre: I don’t have a name for this person, but I did say that Eliza has elite bodyguards. So Eliza’s just like, where’s the head of security today? He’s never fuckin’ late. Where did that fucker go? And I go to his office and I find him dead on his desk with a knife in his back.
Sylvia: Oh…
Keith: Damn.
Sylvia: That’s pretty good. Could I pitch something a little more fucked up?
Dre: Yeah, no, please do.
Sylvia: What if he kills your sister?
Dre: See that’s the thing, is I feel like that’s just evil.
Sylvia: Yeah, fair.
Dre: And I know that we’ve talked about that the Knife doesn’t have to be a good guy—
Sylvia: It could also be Steel who gets killed then.
Dre: Yeah, okay. I put this to the group, because how we wanna, do we want Alabaster Clad who sees someone trying to kill his best friend, and just kills that person?
Sylvia: That’s a good point.
Dre: I mean, it’s on the table for sure. Just asking questions.
Sylvia: I’m fine with it, I also don’t wanna take over your card too much because if your idea is your head of security’s gone and you’re less safe, then I don’t wanna step on that.
Dre: Sure, but I think it is worth a group discussion about how we wanna classify this person. And the easiest way to do that is who do they kill.
Sylvia: My personal feelings about the, will Alabaster kill, is that he kinda already has in a lot of ways— not to be like, uhh Batman breaks people's spines all the time—
Dre: But he does.
Sylvia: He’s been giving, like, byproducts of the things he’s been doing with the police have already killed people too, and I don’t know if we’re gonna like—
Keith: Where then killing is part of the Knife’s deal.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Okay.
Sylvia: I don’t know if we need to pearl clutch so much about him doing violence directly.
Dre: No, fair.
Keith: Who was it that was the assassin in this case? 
Sylvia: Steel.
Dre: Steel, who is my brother in law. So yeah, he kills Steel. 
Keith: Right.
Dre: That is both how he foils the plan and who gets murdered instead. Which I think, now my sister is hysterical and probably has an idea of what happened. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Or that I’m involved somehow.
Sylvia: Either way, your life’s shittier. [laughs]
Dre: Mhm. Mhm. Ugh, she always shows up and she’s just like, crying.
Sylvia: Wah, wah, wah. My dead husband.
Keith: Even in death Steel is a problem for you to deal with.
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah.
Sylvia: Doesn’t she know he has life insurance? Relax.
Dre: Yeah. That’s why you have it.
Sylvia: Yeah. Duh.
Dre: So when I hire you to do a murder and you fuck it up, because of course you do.
Sylvia: [laughs] DO we, do we need to do any scenes for this stuff or are we happy so far? I feel like we got a little bit of good characterization with that line. [chuckles]
Dre: I’m fine. 
Keith: Yeah, I’m happy with that.
Art: Yeah, I don’t think we’re missing anything.
Sylvia: Keith, it’s your turn.
Keith: Wow.
Sylvia: This game does work in montage as well, or in abstract as well. I’m sure we will zoom in at some point during this recording.
Keith: There’s my little card.
Sylvia: THere’s your little card. Lemme make that normal sized for you.
Dre: Lemme see that little card.
Sylvia: That actually made it a little bigger than normal, but, y’know.
Fifth Card [0:40:51]
Keith: One of your schemes is revealed to be a trap. What did you think you would gain? How does the Knife twist that back on you? Wow, I’m, I feel like Vug has been so out. Like, out of the company, out of the mountain, umb, the Knife has been there for both of those, I’m trying to even think of what resources I even have left. I’m not in with Sylvi’s character anymore, so I guess…
Sylvia: You can also ask, again, if you don’t think it applies to your character anymore, you can ask someone else.
Keith: That’s true, does anybody feel like they have a trap?
Sylvia: I might have an idea for a way that my transportation stuff has come back to bite me.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: Which is that, because there is now a network of trains that only the people who are, only the Laze use, it’s like… I don’t know if this necessarily classifies as a trap, now that I’m starting to say it.
Keith: Okay. I have something.
Sylvia: Okay, you have something? Go ahead, please.
Keith: Yeah. Okay. I think that maybe to call this a trap is a stretch, but Sanidine Vug is sort of on their last leg, he’s got, he’s out of money, he’s out of goodwill from the people of the country, he’s out with the Feldspars, he’s back at his, I think that he called it a hovel before, but it’s not, it’s just like a house.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: You know, in the Laze part of town.
Sylvia: Hovel’s in the eye of the beholder.
Keith: Yes, a hovel is in, famously, in the eye of the beholder. But there is one thing I have, a jewel-encrusted black powder rifle belonging to my ancestors.
Sylvia: Ohhh my god.
Keith: So I think that I’ve decided to murder the Knife.
Sylvia: [laughing] Oh my god!
Keith: And that this is my path back to, back in the good graces of… Because I don’t know that the Knife is Caldera, but I do know that Alabaster Clad has been ruining my life.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: So, I’m going to Alabaster’s new mansion. I know where it is.
Sylvia: Yeah, because he bought it, it was supposed to be yours.
Keith: It was supposed to be mine. And I’m going to lay in wait with my rifle to, really just shoot him dead. And the way that this gets twisted back on me is this guy started a fucking, like, military technology and security company.
Sylvia: [laughs] Yeah.
Keith: And he has all this technology, this is not a successful break and enter. I think that this is not a violent retribution. Sanidine Vug just gets arrested and is just like, in a holding cell in jail.
Sylvia: God damn.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Is that… that’s not you flippin’ over your card though, is it?
Keith: No. I’m alive and in jail.
Sylvia: Okay. You don’t have to—
Keith: Although, are we running out of cards?
Sylvia: Oh no, not at all. Not at all.
Keith: Okay, okay.
Sylvia: I just wanted to ask. Because also, you don’t have to be dead to be out of the thing. Alright. Oh, I accidentally pulled a card. Sorry, I’m gonna bring that one back…
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh no…how do I…
Keith: I believe we cannot return cards, which is why…
Art: I don’t need to touch the cards.
Sylvia: Okay. Lemme largen this card… Largen in cardge.
Keith: Largen cardge.
Dre: Mhm, mhm.
Sylvia: Oh! Hey, this one works pretty well.
Sixth Card [0:45:31]
Art: You make plans to flee to a remote region. Where will you travel? How at the last minute does the Knife prevent your escape? It would be funny if Claxton was like, you know what sounds? That deserted island. [Keith and Sylvi laugh] I think things are really starting to fall apart, I understand there are in fact some valuable things there. Some people…
Sylvia: He’s doing the like, ‘I could be a farmer.’
Art: Yeah, exactly. How at the last minute does the Knife prevent your escape… I’m thinking of two things here, we can sort of talk about them. One is by reminding, by bringing up in some public way that Claxton needs to address with Eliza’s fake break-ins, to lead Claxton directly to death here. Or it could be something like, that island somehow like, the maps have been destroyed or the island has been razed somehow in some sort of weird thing that happens.
Sylvia: I mean, it could be that it’s become like, Sanidine Industries under new management has moved in over there.
Keith: There is something that I wanna make sure that we remember about the islands, because the island is the exile island, Alabaster Clad lies about which island he came from.
Art: Oh, that’s right.
Sylvia: Right! You are correct.
Keith: And the island that he actually came from is like, is the one that has all of the resources but the one that he supposedly came from is like, barren. I’m not sure if that helps, but.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: ‘Cause this could be like a sort of passive foiling where you go to this place and it’s totally empty, there’s nothing there. And you have to come back, there’s no food, there’s no shelter.
Art: Yeah I like that.
Sylvia: [chuckling] It’s not that you can’t go, it’s that you do go and it’s terrible. [Keith laughs]
Art: It’s a Fyre Fest experience.
Keith: I heard this place was great! [Sylvi laughs]
Art: Oh, my man.
Keith: At least you got a cheese sandwich.
Sylvia: I was trying to remember the specific sandwich. 
Keith: I think that’s what it was.
Sylvia: I think it was just a slice of cheese between two pieces of white bread.
Keith: Just cold cheese sandwiches, yeah.
Dre: And the fuckin’ meme picture from the guy on the Fyre Festival documentary, I forget his name, it’s just like a screenshot of his face right before he’s about to say something very cursed. This is not a good reference, I’m sorry.
Keith: Billy McFarland.
Sylvia: Who?
Art: That’s the Fyre Fest guy.
Keith: Billy McFarland, the Fyre Festival guy.
Sylvia: Is that it for the turn?
Art: I think so, I don’t think there’s an interesting scene here.
Sylvia: Yeah no worries. A lot of these are… I think the thing, it’s fine—
Keith: This is working.
Sylvia: Yeah, this is still working. It doesn’t have to be…
Keith: Mopey, sort of Charlie Brown music, you know, shuffling Claxton having to come back from this island.
Sylvia: Oh damn…
Keith: Is this you, Sylvi?
Sylvia: Yeah…
Keith: Wow.
Seventh Card [0:48:36]
Sylvia: You are abandoned by someone you love. Do I love anybody, is the problem here. What was the final straw?
Keith: The bank manager.
Sylvia: What were the last words they said to you? I got a husband, I guess. Wasn’t really…
Keith: I forgot about that.
Sylvia: Yeah, I never really pictured it as being a romantic thing.
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: Y’know, I actually, I got one. I thought of one. Y’know, it’s a bit of a stretch in the term abandoned, but I think it works. I think I found out that I got written out of my grandfather’s will.
Keith: Whoa.
Sylvia: I think that his justification—
Keith: Grandpa, why?
Sylvia: Well, he built this zeppelin industry, and now I’m fuckin’ over the whole thing. Trains? Man was not meant to ride the rails. Those were his last words.
Keith: Rails are for the animals!
Sylvia: [chuckling] Man was not meant to ride the rails. And see, my argument was, but they are animals. [Keith laughs] They don’t have money, so they are. Reminder that I’m playing a character.
Keith: No. This is Sylvi. This is real Sylvi.
Sylvia: Yeah, sorry. When you look at your podcast app it’s gonna be blkinking and say ‘this is what Sylvi actually believes.’
Art: Finally mask off Sylvi.
Sylvia: Yeah… [laughs] Oh, my mask been off for a little while. You guys don’t think that virus is real, do ya? Oh no, evil Sylvi! [Art and Keith chuckle] Okay.
Keith: Damn, I can’t wait for the evil season where we’re all evil.
Sylvia: Yeah…
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: I think the last words that grandpa said to me, I’m trying to think of a—
Keith: You’re out, idiot.
Sylvia: I’m trying to think of a proper like, Logan Roy Succession-y thing. It might just be ‘you were always a disappointment’ and then he dies.
Keith: Wow that’s rough.
Dre: Damn. Damn.
Keith: It’s not even really even true.
Sylvia: No, I usually did pretty alright, but y’know…
Keith: Yeah, you did alright.
Sylvia: But it’s the principle of the thing, and now I gotta fuckin’ fight to keep the company ‘cause I didn’t get it willed to me.
Keith: Oh yeah, who gets all of grandpa’s shares?
Sylvia: Listen, I’m not a, I don’t think I’m an only child, I don’t think my parents are only children either, so.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I think there’s a protracted and ongoing case about this now.
Dre: Mm…
Keith: You’re gonna sue.
Sylvia: Oh, not just me. The lawyers on Oligo right now when this happened, they all celebrated. Because paychecks all around. Okay. That’s it for, Dre, you’re up.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh also, when he died, he was in the grandpa from Stardew Valley bed. That’s not canon, but I think it was funny to say. [Keith laughs]
Keith: Do you mean the worst bed of all time bed?
Sylvia: Yeah. I love that bed. I love the mods that make the bed worse.
Keith: The bed that’s not even in that house?
Sylvia: Yeah. Sorry, Dre.
Dre: Oh. Oh! This is good.
Sylvia: Lemme enlarge.
Dre: Yeah, make it big.
Sylvia: Ooh. Oh, this is good!
Eighth Card [0:52:00]
Dre: You sequester yourself from society dealing through proxies and messages. Where do you hide away, and how does your isolation make you more vulnerable?
Art: Is this part of the murder?
Dre: Yeah, for sure. Do we wanna reveal that card?
Art: Yeah, yeah absolutely.
Dre: You ready to die? Okay. This happens at, like, what the heart of the lava harvesting factory looks like.
Keith: It looks like a literal heart.
Dre: Ooh. That’s fucked up. I was gonna say it’s like a big open warehouse-style room and there’s just lava pouring from all the ceilings and stuff.
Art: Sorta like the Star Wars planet.
Dre: Mustafar? Is that the lava planet?
Keith: Yeah, Mustafar, yeah.
Art: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah. But y’know, take Mustafar’s environment and put it like, a big fuckin’ business hall.
Art: Yeah, business Mustafar.
Keith: Coruscantstufar.
Dre: Do you wanna do a scene around this?
Art: Yeah, sure.
Keith: Yeah.
Art: Just sort of like an, 
Art (as Claxton): Alright, I came down here.
Dre (as Eliza): Claxton, I am so glad you came. But I have to be honest, the primary reason I wanna speak to you today is not really about these break-ins we’ve been having. They’re…they’re expected. They’re acceptable levels of shrink, quite frankly. [Sylvi giggles]
Art (as Claxton): You can’t think of it that way. It’s, it starts with that and then it gets, it escalates…
Dre (as Eliza): [sighs] Well…
Art: I don’t know if this guy was from New Jersey the last time he was onscreen, but that’s what I’m doin’ now.
Sylvia: Ayyy.
Dre (as Eliza): Speaking of escalate, I think I need to revisit a conversation I had with you and see if you are willing to consider the real identity of that so-called Alabaster Clad.
Art (as Claxton): We’ve been over this. All of his documentation checks out.
Dre (as Eliza): [sigh]
Art (as Claxton): That’s why we have documents. To check ‘em out.
Dre (as Eliza): But you know as well as I do, perhaps even better, that you can fake documents.
Art (as Claxton): Whoa. I would know though. I’m… I’m a document reader. [Keith laughs]
Art: Dumb thing to say. [Art and Keith laugh]
Sylvia: Why would anyone wanna get rid of this guy?
Dre (as Eliza): That’s true, Claxton. You know, one of the things I value most about you is that you are a person that has a lot of knowledge about a lot of things.
Art (as Claxton): Thank you, it’s always nice to be appreciated
Dre (as Eliza): [sighs] There is unfortunately a piece of knowledge that I should not have trusted you with. And I think, [Sylvi giggles] it is time for me to rectify that error.
Art (as Claxton): Mm?
Dre: End of the hallway, big hangar door opens, and like ten robots walk out.
Sylvia: Yo!
Keith: Whoa.
Art (as Claxton): What’s this?
Sylvia (as evil robot): Beep boop.
Dre (as Eliza): Oh, I’ve told you, I’ve told you that—
Sylvia: I’m playing the robots.
Art: Yeah. I got— I got it—
Dre (as Eliza): The future of this, y’know, I was telling you about acceptable shrink and you very, very pointedly, and very intelligently pointed out you can’t think that way. Anything that’s a potential loss, you need to get rid of it. And, I’ve—
Art (as Claxton): Hey, whoa.
Dre (as Eliza): And I’ve come to think, that really I think people just a potential loss.
Sylvia: [laughing] Whoa!
Art (as Claxton): Well, that’s very disturbing. 
Sylvia (as evil robot): Beep boop, that’s a very nihilistic viewpoint.
Keith (as evil robot): [robotic voice modulation] IS THIS THE GUY? [Sylvi and Dre laugh]
Sylvia: Thank you so much!
Dre (as Eliza): Anyway, Claxton, is there anything you would like your wife to know? [Sylvi gasps]
Art (as Claxton): What— I—
Sylvia: Damn!
Dre (as Eliza): I’m not gonna be cruel, Claxton, it’ll be quick.
Art (as Claxton): You can’t do this! [Sylvi gasps]
Dre: Robots closing in around you.
Art: Yeah— [chuckles]
Sylvia (as evil robot): Brrrr.
Art: Pulls out like, a gun starts just firing it at robots uselessly.
Keith (as evil robot): [voice modulator] WARNING. PASSWORD REQUESTED. PLEASE DELIVER YOUR LAST WORDS TO US.
Art (as Claxton): Noooo!
Sylvia (as evil robot): That was a really weird choice of last words. Also why does your voice sound like that?
Keith (as evil robot): [with a different, higher modulator] That’s your last words? [original modulator] HAHA THIS GUY SUCKS. [Sylvi laughs]
Dre: Anyway, robot picks you up, throws you in the lava.
Sylvia: Daaamn!
Art: Yeah it sounds like that’s it, I’ve moved myself, I tried to put myself over a conspirator card but I’m on a lower level.
Sylvia: I can probably…bring to front.
Dre: Mm.
Art: Or maybe I can to that?
Sylvia: I think we all can, but yeah. Boom.
Art: Boom.
Sylvia: Alright!
Dre: So yeah, I think in this case I don’t necessarily hide away somewhere different physically, but the thing is is I don’t fuckin’ deal with people anymore. It’s all robots.
Sylvia: I will say—
Art: Fuckin’ A.
Sylvia: Yeah. That is a, that’s, I was not expecting that. You know? I wasn’t expecting PVP.
Dre: Yeah. And this makes me more vulnerable because the robots are not that advanced, they’re not that good. I know less about what’s going on now. A lot less.
Keith: Did you say PVB, player versus battle droid?
Sylvia: I said PVP…
Dre: She did say PVP, yeah. But PVB’s pretty good.
Sylvia: Yeah, I’m not a…battle droid isn’t just like a pull I’d make. Personally.
Dre: You weren’t a prequel kid? You’re the right age.
Sylvia: I was a prequel kid. I’m just not really a Star Wars kid.
Dre: Fair.
Sylvia: I like what I’ve seen just fine. But it’s not where my brain jumps.
Keith: I feel like battle droid, that’s, I feel like that’s common knowledge. That’s aether Star Wars.
Dre: Roger roger.
Sylvia: I would just think droid, though.
Keith: Yeah okay.
Dre: Fair.
Sylvia: ‘Cause to me, all droids are battle droids.
Dre: Yeah, if you give ‘em a gun.
Sylvia: Yeah exactly. Arm R2— Arm2-D2.
Art: Yeah, that’s what KOTOR is about, right?
Sylvia: Oh yeah! I played that.
Dre: Yeahyeahyeah.
Keith: Yeah in KOTOR you can make R2-D2 shoot and kill all day.
Sylvia: That rules. Art, we should probably take a brief second to answer, while you’re falling toward the lava, to answer these questions on your Conspirator card. Choose one to answer.
Art: Yeah.
Dre: As your life flashes before your eyes for a very long time.
Art: Yeah. Who do you blame for your downfall is the question that I’m going to pick.
Sylvia: Uh huh?
Art: And it’s Eliza. [Sylvi and Keith laugh]
Dre: Wha, hey, what’d I do?
Sylvia: Yeah, the most straightforward way to get this started, but I still think it’s worth mentioning.
Art: One of my favorite line deliveries in the history of media is there’s an episode of Futurama where they have like an evil version of a character, they have an evil version of the robot Bender named Flexo.
Sylvia: Oh my god!
Keith: Oh yeah. Flexo.
Art: At the end of the episode they do the like, Leela has a gun and has to shoot one of them, but the way to tell them apart has disappeared, and she says out loud, ‘I don't know who to shoot!’ And Fry goes, ‘Flexo! Shoot Flexo!’ [Keith and Dre laugh] And I think of it all the time, like, who do you blame? Flexo, blame Flexo! It’s, yeah.
Sylvia: Remember when Futurama was funny? It’s been a while.
Art: I haven’t seen the most recent set, but yes, I do. I was in high school, so you must have been in preschool.
Sylvia: Yeah, I was a fetus at the time. ‘Cause they never aired it again, famously. Never got syndicated.
Art: An irresponsible preschool, frankly, to be showing you that. Some of it was…
Sylvia: They just showed us the dog episode, so. [Art laughs]
Dre: Jesus.
Keith: The most irresponsible.
Sylvia: Yeah, I know. But you gotta understand mortality someday.
Keith: Yeah. You also gotta have a frame of reference why every sitcom got weirdly sad.
Sylvia: Yeah. It’s a bummer. Okay, we should probably keep this momentum going now that one of us has died.
Dre: Yeah. 
Keith: Yeah, sure.
Sylvia: I believe Keith, it’s your card now.
Keith: It’s my card. It’s my draw.
Sylvia: And then it’ll go back to me, ‘cause Art…Art, feel free to chime in during scenes if you’ve got some ideas for stuff.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: Especially Knife stuff when we pull Knife cards, I’d love to have everyone involved.
Keith: This already happened.
Sylvia: This already happened? What?
Keith: This card I drew. This has already happened. So…
Sylvia: Do you wanna— I could take this one?
Keith: Sure.
Ninth Card [1:00:50]
Sylvia: The Knife cuts you off from your ill-gotten wealth. Who helps the Knife bankrupt you, and why will nobody else now offer you a loan? The Knife backs one of my cousins, is the main thing. Bankrolls a lot of her legal team, comes up with a whole way to, to, fix the mistakes that I’ve made over the years with my shit even if, like to improve upon the rail system and to like, using this new technology we can get the zeppelins to go even further. We’ve started figuring out these things called planes, maybe even. 
Keith: Whoa.
Sylvia: You know what? No. I’m gonna say an ornithopter, because we’re in that space.
Art: There you go. Fuck yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. But just like, basically completely shows me up with the investors and people who have shares and can decide who’s in charge. And nobody really wants to give me a loan ‘cause my reputations kind of in the shitter. Ousted from what was considered the most secure position on Oligo in a lot of ways. Everyone just kinda figured oh yeah no, Gabrielle Feldspar’s dad ran that company, her grandpa ran that company, she’s gonna run that company. Nope. Grandpa died and fucked her over.
Keith: Damn.
Sylvia: Now everyone just kinda sees me for what I am, which is a loudmouth socialite who has more ambition than sense, I think is a good way to put it.
Art: Damn.
Dre: Damn.
Sylvia: Yeah, And now I pull—
Keith: And now more ambition than cents!
Sylvia: Ayy! I mean—
Dre: Ayy.
Art: Ohh!
Sylvia: I’m just not liquid right now, y’know?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Sure.
Sylvia: I’ve got the house and stuff, but I’m just not liquid—
Keith: You’re gonna be!
Sylvia: Eh oh! Lava humor!
Art: Ayy! [Keith chuckles]
Sylvia: The way card passing works is it’s my turn but if— oh it’s a Knife, so we can all answer this. But Keith, if you wanna take lead, I wouldn’t mind. If you wanna have a turn.
Keith: Sure.
Dre: Ooh.
Sylvia: Ooh!
Tenth Card [1:03:21]
Keith: Answer as the Knife. A striving youth reminds oyu of your carefree years. Who threatens their happiness? Do you intercede or turn away?
Sylvia: This doesn’t have to all be on you, by the way, when I said that. I just was like, I just took Keith’s turn, so I wanted to extend.
Keith: Let’s see…
Sylvia: I feel like we’ve got a lot more options for who would threaten it than we do for who would.
Keith: Do we wanna reintroduce some, like, humanity back into the Knife?
Sylvia: I think, yeah.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: This would be someone that he meets in with the Laze that is like, the carefree years aren’t the final years of being Born Warm, but actually are the times that he spent sort of living among you know, regular people.
Sylvia: I adore that.
Keith: And that the thing that threatens their happiness is the world that has been built around them and that he is now not just participating in, but exacerbating?
Sylvia: This is a great turn, Keith. I love this. Yeah, no, because like, it could be a thing too where it’s like, a scholarly Laze kid or something right? In the same way that he was off doing his excavation stuff. And maybe it’s more like, I don’t know, some other form of study. But it’s like, he sees this kid being forced to work in the fucking lava mines.
Keith: Yeah it says who threatens their happiness and it’s sort of like, whose happiness here isn’t threatened?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: And where isn’t there a threat? Like, it is a horrible life that almost everybody here has to live.
Sylvia: Does he intercede, do you think? Like is this something that he wants to go about changing? Or is it just like, fuck I can’t belive I did that.
Keith: My gut says yes. But I think that there’s two ways to do that. The shitty way, which is to personify his feelings onto one person and be like, as long as I can help this one kid then it absolves me. And then the other part of it is seeing the problem for what it is and trying to, y’know, pump the brakes on this sort of monstrous boulder that he’s helping push downhill. And I think that I, I shouldn't say unilaterally which one of those it should be. But those are the choices as I see them, with intercede.
Sylvia: Yeah! Ideas I’ve got are like, installing failsafes or planned obsolescence and stuff into the security he’s been providing. Like, starting to lower the quality of that so it’s less dangerous for people or less effective.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Oh like, this stuff stops working in five years and then…?
Sylvia: Not even five, shorter than that. Planned obsolescence is just the first term that I could think of other than failsafe ‘cause I don’t know if a failsafe is necessarily the right term that I’m looking for?
Keith: What does the Knife control right now? So the Vug portions of Feldspar, the Vug Industries.
Sylvia: Kinda the whole Feldspar thing too, if he’s pulling the strings…
Keith: Kind of the whole Feldspar thing. Kind of is running the like, the gold, turning the economy from an obsidian-based economy to a gold-based economy.
Sylvia: He’s kind of becoming the king of the island.
Keith: He’s kind of, well that is sort of what I’m saying. I’m trying to find the limits of what he has control over. Because he’s changed the economy, it’s also crashing, the traditional economy is crashing because of Vug. But then there’s this other part of the economy that’s working because of Alabaster. And then there was one other… Oh, and the security stuff is a major player now in the military industrial complex. So yeah, I guess my thought would be, some sort of liberal reform.
Sylvia: [laughs] Yeah?
Keith: Some sort of basic worker’s rights thing that is like, what I have as like, what can I do here? And that’s sort of where I’m— Or, like I said, adopt this one kid. And be like, you’re going to be my protege. 
Dre: I mean, that is what Batman be doin’.
Keith: That is right. That is the Batman choice.
Sylvia: That makes sense to me, honestly. Get him doing the Bruce Wayne philanthropy shit.
Keith: But I refuse to pick.
Sylvia: Oh. Yeah. [Keith laughs] Okay.
Keith: I, I, those are my two paths but I don’t want to pick. ‘Cause I don’t know which one is better.
Sylvia: [laughing] Well fuck! I don’t wanna pick either, I feel like I railroaded so much this game!
Keith: Oh, I don’t feel like that.
Dre: Yeah, I don’t feel that way at all.
Art: Yeah—
Sylvia: Okay cool, it’s just, y’know, neuroticism.
Dre: Mhm?
Sylvia: I kinda like the Bruce Wayne reform thing. The like—
Keith: No, Bruce Wayne has Robin.
Sylvia: I’m gonna shoot you. With a gun.
Keith: [wheeze] The other one was the Bruce Wayne one. I just wanna be clear.
Sylvia: I, oaky.
Keith: Like the reform is fun.
Dre: Yeah, the reform is fun.
Art: Yeah that’s sort of, I think that sorta feels like the weird shitty tale we’re telling.
Keith: Yeah. Like, okay. We get like, this is like, 1800s shit of like, what do we get, like a maximum hours workweek? We get some sort of, your job isn’t allowed to kill you?
Sylvia: Is he inventing Sunday?
Dre: You have to, they gotta put these posters up in the room with all these laws that they won’t actually enforce?
Sylvia: Oh, he founds OSHA!
Keith: Okay, OSHA. This is my second OSHA character.
Sylvia: You just love safety practices. I don’t actually think that’s the answer, I just thought it’d be funny to say.
Keith: Can we… I like the idea of inventing the weekend, I think it’s really funny. [Sylvi laughs]
Dre: I like that.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah that’s pretty good.
Keith: Let’s see… I’m looking at, for the first time today, looking at volcano names for what we can call the day. But this list is not good. I lost my last big good list.
Sylvia: No worries.
Keith: It’s okay, if I get a good one I’ll say it.
Sylvia: Do we feel satisfied with that?
Keith: I feel satisfied.
Sylvia: Inventing the weekend? Okay. Dre, I believe this is your card next.
Dre: Okay.
Sylvia: Damn, this works well with your last card too.
Dre: Super does.
Keith: Wow. It’s like all the same people wrote these cards.
Sylvia: [laughs] Shut up! 
Eleventh Card [1:11:08]
Dre: You stare at a cherished token of your reputation. How did you win it? Why does it no longer bring you pride? Hmm. That’s a good question. ‘Cause I haven’t of Eliza as like, she’s materialistic in so much as she wants to be rich and powerful but not materialistic in terms of like, has a lot of object that’s she’s really obsessed over. So I’m trying to think of what that could be. Oh! It’s the knife that I killed my dad with.
Sylvia: Damn. Damn!
Keith: Cherished.
Dre: I won it by—
Art: Yeah, cherished.
Dre: Yeh. Uh huh! It’s a knife that my dad always wore on his hip. It was like, it had our family emblazoned, gilded onto it, it had gems and stuff like that. And I won it by killing him with it.
Keith: This is like Cameron Frye running over his dad with the Ferrari. 
Dre: [laughs] And it no longer brings me pride because I know that Basalt Caldera is back and he’s gonna fuckin’ ruin my life unless I can figure out a way to stop him. Because I realize that I’m gonna have to use this knife again. That’s what it’s gonna have to come down to.
Sylvia: Ohh…it’s time…ah fuck, I can’t think of a Slow Knife pun right now. Fuck me. Time to speed this knife up. There, that’s, eh, I dunno. I’m trying.
Keith: How many cards do we have left?
Sylvia: Meh, shut up. Not many.
Keith: How many?
Sylvia: Not many. We are rapidly approaching the finish line.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: We better get to dyin’.
Keith: How about we call the weekend—
Art: You better get busy dyin’ or get busy…
Keith: We call the new weekend the Vapor Phase.
Sylvia: Vapor Phase is my favorite Soundcloud rapper.
Keith: [chuckles] That’s when gasses escape cooling volcanic rock.
Sylvia: Oh. I just know him for his song “I Feel Like Teriyaki Chicken.”
Keith: Damn. I also feel like teriyaki chicken.
Sylvia: [mumble laughing] Keith, it’s your turn…
Keith: Oh okay great. Draw.
Sylvia: Lemme, lemme embiggen it real quick for you, bud. Oh.
Twelfth Card [1:13:28]
Keith: One of your long-buried sins is publicly exposed. How did the Knife unearth this scandal? What consequences do you face? God, what more sins could I have done?
Dre: I was about to say Keith, if this is one you want to pass I have an idea of how I could take it.
Keith: Okay. I think we’re running out of opportunities for me to die.
Dre: That’s true.
Sylvia: Again, you don’t need to die, you can just be ruined.
Dre: Yeah, you could just be imprisoned forever.
Keith: I am ruined, that is nice, I am already ruined. I would like, [chuckles] I would like to die.
Dre: Alright Ali.
Sylvia: [laughs] You said! At the beginning of this everyone dies except Keith, and now all of a sudden mister ohhh I wanna die.
Keith: Oh did I say that? Oh wow.
Sylvia: Yeah that was one of the bits remember?
Keith: Now I do, and it’s true. Yeah, Dre, you can take this one because Vug lives. [Sylvi laughs]
Dre: Sure. Vug lives forever.
Keith: New shirt.
Sylvia: #VugLives!
Keith: friendsatthetable.shop, Vug Lives.
Dre: What is the name of Alabaster Clad’s Vicki Vale?
Sylvia: She’s over there on the right of the sheet, what is it? I’m tabbed over…
Keith: I think it’s Rocky Road.
Dre: Alana Irestone.
Sylvia: Yeah. Rocky Road would’ve been really good though… [Keith chuckles]
Dre: Yeah. She publishes an expose about the death of my father and how Basalt Caldera was framed for it wrongly.  And does not come out and say that I’m the one responsible, but kinda has enough evidence to lay it out in the story that implicates me.
Keith: What consequences do you face?
Dre: That’s a good question. Well, and also now, what do the cops look like now that Claxton’s gone?
Sylvia: I mean—
Keith: [robot voice] THEY LOOK LIKE THIS.
Sylvia: Oh no.
Dre: Oh shit. ‘Cause I could just tell Claxton like, don’t let anyone come investigate me, fuck off with this shit. I can’t do that anymore potentially.
Keith: Right, because you killed Claxton.
Dre: I’ve killed Claxton and also I’m hiding protected by robots. I have not talked to the new chief of police, I have not put them under my thumb. Yeah. I think they fuckin’ raid my house. It’s like the opening of Schitt’s Creek. [Sylvi laughs] Right? They go through everything, they take everything as potential evidence.
Sylvia: Yeah, that’s exactly what I was thinkin’.
Keith: And like Schitt’s Creek, you move to the small town and slowly learn that being rich is okay.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: I can be a good person, and be rich and better than everyone.
Keith: And be rich.
Dre: Yeahyeahyeah. No, I mean I’m not there.
Keith: And then you can sell creams to poor people!
Dre: That’s true. Well not poor, tourist people. But no, I’m not there in my house, right? I am in the factory, I am surrounded by my robots, I will not let anyone touch me. But like, if I ever wanted to leave, there is nothing for me to go back to.
Keith: That’s fucked up.
Dre: I kinda deserve it, I think.
Keith: Sure.
Dre: Oh I know what it is. It’s the thing, that becomes the headline is that Alana gets an exclusive interview with my sister, Luetta.
Sylvia: Oh my god. Brutal. And I’m assuming she talks about her dear departed husband in that.
Dre: Yeah probably. Yeahyeahyeahyeah.
Sylvia: Oh fuck…
Dre: Forgot we killed him. Yeah, okay.
Thirteenth Card [1:17:08]
Sylvia: Okay. I pulled this Knife card. Answer as the Knife. Someone innocent stumbles upon part of your intricate plan. Do you give up the scheme or silence them forever? I’m trying to figure out which part of the plan and who this is. Because I have ideas for who this could be. Trying to stick with our named characters, my ideas were either Mosey or Alana.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Oh, because we had a card about Caldera specifically keeping secret his true identity from Alana, living the lie of Alabaster Clad. So I think that makes a ton of sense.
Sylvia: Yeah okay. What does Mosey stumble on?
Keith: Mosey?
Sylvia: Or, sorry, Alana. I’m tired. So I don’t know, if it’s Alana I don’t know if it’s gonna be silence her forever or at the very least—
Dre: Probably not?
Sylvia: Not in the murdery way. I don’t think that, especially after the sort of epiphany he just had with his potential Robin but instead just inspired his sort of public welfare bills.
Keith: I agree.
Sylvia: Yeah. Okay wait, maybe it’s…
Dre: Ah, maybe he does kill his girlfriend! [laughs]
Sylvia: Nonononononono, he doesn’t do that. It’s the plan, it’s the plan that’s making me do that voice. Dre, you said some words during our break.
Dre: Uh, yeah sure.
Sylvia: [laughs] And I believe they were ‘volcano 9/11?’
Dre: Yeah!
Sylvia: Which is not actually what I’m doing, but it is—
Dre: Oh. You just wanted to make sure everybody knew that? [Dre and Keith and Art laugh]
Sylvia: No, because volcano train derailment is—yeah I mean, I did. I’ll be honest. I did.
Dre: That’s fair. That’s fair.
Sylvia: I think it’s a really funny thing to say. But it also did get me thinking about like, a big train derailment thing? 
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvia: Or like, actually no, he probably wouldn’t go for the trains because they’re the people he’s trying to help now.
Dre: Yeah, that’s for the people.
Sylvia: So yeah, no, it would be—
Dre: Yeah, now we’re back to the zeppelins!
Sylvia: We’re back to volcano 9/11—
Dre: Yeah!
Sylvia: —that he has to call off because his girlfriend walks in on his schematics for that! I don’t think it’s necessarily as cut and dry—
Dre: God, what if—
Keith: Is 9/11 not for the people? 
Sylvia: I mean I think 9— listen, we can’t get into this.
Dre: We can’t. We cannot.
Sylvia: We can’t get into this. I like being able to visit the United States and I don’t wanna say anything that’ll have that revoked.
Dre: Yeah. Also I know people who lost people in 9/11, so.
Sylvia: Yeah it’s also a thing. No, but I think it’s one of those things where he was going to… Oh, here’s a way to spin it even more. I’m spinnin’ it even more. Where the plan was to, after getting this influence with the Feldspars, and incorporating some of his own electricity tech into their stuff, was gonna make it so there was a bunch of engine failures. Like he was going to Boeing this stuff, y’know? Except not out of neglect and greed, it’s intentional.
Dre: Sure.
Sylvia: So it’s not a full Boeing. That said, I think—
Keith: It’s a semi-Boeing.
Sylvia: It’s a semi-Boeing. It is one of those things where it’s like, she founds out about it and she’s like, I have to report on this if it’s going to happen. I have to say something. And he’s like, [disappointed] okay. I won’t make all the zeppelins fall out of the sky. I guess. 
Dre: You never let me have any fun…
Sylvia: You never let me have any fun! Sorry to make him that voice, I guess. Anyway, that’s my pitch for that card! I got through it.
Dre: Mhm!
Keith: Is to almost do terrorism.
Sylvia: Yeah, he is almost about to— ‘cause the motivation being the further ruin of the Feldspars and then instead being like okay, I guess I need to target the specific one that fucked me over and get the rich people the other ways.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Mhm.
Sylvia: That was my card, yeah? So Dre, I think it’s back to you.
Dre: Oh, okay.
Sylvia: Were you done last time? No, you’re still here.
Dre: Nonono, I’m still technically around. Let’s see if we can get me killed this time.
Sylvia: We are nearing the end. We should start, we’re entering the murder zone.
Dre: Yeah. How do I— It won’t let me draw a card now.
Sylvia: Oh, we’re out of cards.
Art: We might be out of cards.
Sylvia: So…this happened last time I played this game too.
Dre: Oh!
Keith: I tried to be aware.
Sylvia: Yeah me too. I didn’t realize there were less cards than I thought. I thought there were twenty and there’s not. Or maybe there are and I just… Well that’s fine. I think that my thing worked fine for my character. Of getting disowned.
Keith: Maybe we could steal a card that we didn’t already get as a last card if we wanted to have a death.
Sylvia: Oh like one we didn’t pull personally?
Keith: One we didn’t pull, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah honestly, I like that idea. And they’re all laid out in front of us. So which prompt do you think would work best for your character’s downfall and we can just go in order if that’s what you’re— unless Dre, I don’t wanna make you go first on this.
Dre: Oh, that’s fine. Where am I looking at these things?
Sylvia: Literally just the cards that we pulled this session.
Keith: One that wasn’t you, you can pick it and make this your final card if you’re not satisfied with your current state.
Dre: Okay. So one that we have already drawn, yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: I think I might be satisfied with mine, but we’ll see. Because again, we still have epilogue questions that will put some finer points on things.
Dre: Yeah, I don’t know if I feel any of these for Eliza. I guess, do we need to pick on of these, or is there also a chance to continue this with whatever the next mechanic is?
Sylvia: If you want I can…
Keith: Is there a next mechanic?
Sylvia: Yes, there’s epilogue questions, I’m trying to see if they’re on the Miro board.
Keith: I’ve got one, I’ve got one for this card down here. You are abandoned by someone you love. 
Sylvia: Yeah, if you’ve got one then please go for it.
Final Cards [1:23:28]
Keith: You are abandoned by someone you love. What was the final straw? What were the last words they said to you? We remember Sanidine Vug is in a jail cell, was arrested for, what, is it conspiracy to commit murder if you are by yourself? I think it is.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: It’s just the plan to commit murder without actually going through with it. It could be attempt— I’m in jail for something.
Dre: It’s probably attempted murder. Yeah.
Art: Yeah…
Keith: One of those things. Attempted murder. Well I got arrested before Caldera even showed up.
Dre: Yeah, but I think they could still charge you for that.
Keith: It was breaking and entering…
Dre: Trespassing…
Keith: Trespassing, and…
Dre: Terroristic threatening…
Keith: And attempted murder. And my mother, the senior Vug, shows up to the jail cell and doesn’t stay for long, just says, y’know, just says the Vugs are better off without you. Like, stop trying please. And then goes off to try to get their mountain back without Sanidine. Now has failed to get the mountain and then has been abandoned by the people he was trying to get the mountain on behalf of. We don’t want your help, you’re not part of this anymore.
Sylvia: Damn. Yeah, I think that fits.
Keith: Mhm.
Sylvia: I was looking over epilogue stuff and I think that I’m actually satisfied with my Conspirator being destroyed when her, like her card getting flipped when she had the business taken away from her. I think that’s kind of her downfall, being completed in a lot of ways.
Keith: We’re not actually flipping these cards, we’re just dragging our guy?
Sylvia: Yeah, we’re just puttin’ out guys on ‘em, to show…
Art: And then answer your question.
Sylvia: Yeah. So I’ll also answer my question shortly.
Keith: What was the question?
Sylvia: Look at the card below the Conspirator card, it’s the other side technically.
Keith: Ohh, I understand.
Sylvia: Yeah. So you choose one of these questions.
Keith: Do we wanna go in order of official downfall?
Sylvia: Oh, do you want me to go first? I can do it, yeah.
Keith: I thought Art’s was first.
Sylvia: [cross] Well Art already did his. 
Art: [cross] I’ve already done it.
Sylvia: Art did his when it happened.
Keith: Oh, ohh right. I remember—
Sylvia: Yeah. ‘Cause you’re supposed to and then I was like, oh but I’ll probably be able to die. Which is exactly what I did the first time I played this game.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: Yeah. I didn’t have a lot of good, obvious death ones.
Sylvia: No, that is the problem. You kind of need to be a little more proactive with it and we are coming to it after a long break. The Knife’s last words to me, the question I’m answering, what are the Knife’s last words to you. I think it’s just something like, Well you always knew you were gonna get what you deserved. Something like that. Pretty simple, pretty straightforward. But it’s said to her when she’s leaving the court or office or wherever it was decided she would not be getting what she thought was her birthright. I think it’s you now, Keith.
Keith: I’m going to answer, who do you blame for your downfall? I think I have a lot of people to blame. I think that it’s easy to blame, I don’t know when Vug figures out that Caldera and Alabaster Clad are the same person, if ever, I don’t know. Garbielle is a good one.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: But I think right now, he’s blaming his mother, the other Vugs, they did nothing, they gave me no support. I was out here trying and getting somewhere, we almost had it, and they let it slip through our fingers. And then they kicked me out, those fucking idiots.
Sylvia: Man… Those dumb fuckers don’t appreciate a good Vug when they’ve got one.
Keith: Yeah...
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: And Dre, I’ve noticed you’ve dragged yourself over here too. Do you have a downfall in mind for ol’ Eliza here?
Dre: What is the stupidest way for someone to die alone? [Sylvi laughs]
Keith: Oh, I know. It’s having a tank of helium and inflatable balloons and sucking the helium and making funny voices until you pass out from a lack of oxygen.
Dre: Okay, I don't think she would do that.
Art: How does that kill you?
Keith: Uh, lack of oxygen.
Dre: Yeah.
Art: But when you pass out, don’t you start breathing oxygen?
Keith: Uh, brain damage from that. Oh, the other thing is, you could decide that you’re not getting enough helium from the balloons and you could suck right from the tank and it can rupture your lungs when you do that.
Dre: Yeah, I don’t think she’s a big helium girlie.
Keith: [dejected] Okay…
Art: I think choking.
Art: Yeah, that’s kinda, that’s where I went first, right? But I want it to be some sort of accident that would’ve been so easily preventable if she let even one person be around her. Yeah I think choking fits that very well.
Keith: Robot scuffed up the carpet, the runner carpet, and you tripped and fell down the stairs.
Dre: Ooh.
Keith: And broke your whole body.
Dre: Oh, yeah, no, yeah. That’s great, because then I’m just laying there waiting to die, unable to move. And I probably have not, these robots aren’t programmed to do medical care or anything. So yeah, I—
Keith: [robot voice] IMPROPER POSITION.
Dre: Mhm. Or if they do try to move me, it makes it worse right? ‘Cause they’re not fuckin’ doctors. They don’t know how to stabilize somebody with a broken spine.
Keith: Mhm.
Art: But yeah. Who do I blame for my downfall? They rest of you dumb motherfuckers. If you would’ve just listened to me, I told you who he is. And if you just woulda listened to me, we all would've been fine.
Keith: That’s true. That’s probably true.
Sylvia: I don’t know about that… If we, I mean, this whole problem started when we listened to you, when you were like, help me hide this murder.
Dre: Yeah, and, and, for a long time we were all doing a lot better because of it.
Sylvia: Mmm… Citation needed.
Dre: I was doing great, Claxton was doing great.
Sylvia: Yeah, I, seems like an unforced error for me, really. Feels like I woulda been doing great if I just didn’t do anything. I kinda just wanted more attention.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Yeah, you really did a lot over liking a boy.
Sylvia: I mean, y’know. Does that shock anybody?
Art: [cross] A tale as old as time.
Keith: [cross] Gotta kill that guy. 
Sylvia: Okay, well, once all of us have flipped our Conspirator cards, the Knife’s patient revenge is complete at last. Each of us should choose an epilogue question on the next page to answer, then once each of us have answered once, our story is over. There’s no particular order, so if anybody sees a question that really jumps out to them, please let me know.
Art: Oh man they sorta, it cuts down your option when you die in a lava murder. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: It does. If you wanna save one of the Knife ones, if you wanna save the five years later one for yourself, you can.
Art: Um…
Sylvia: But also, no there’s a few of these that could work.
Art: Yeah there’s a few of these, I’m not hurtin’ here.
Keith: Not anymore.
Art: God, I wish we hadn’t killed Mack Magoo so many times.
Dre: Ugh…
Sylvia: Bring him back!
Keith: Mack Magoo-bot.
Art: But I will, I will answer. I will say, a season later who rises to claim your Conspirator’s dominion for themself? I think Chief Inspector Crust, they’re still alive right?
Sylvia: Yes. I think so.
Keith: Ooh. Yeah. Or if not, it’s Crust Jr.
Art: Yeah, Crust Jr.. Their child with Mack Magoo’s cousin. 
Keith: Crust Magoo.
Art: Mack Crust.
Keith: Mack Crust. Hyphenated Crust-Magoo.
Art: Yeah. Mack-Crust Magoo becomes the new chief of police.
Dre: Does he do a good job?
Sylvia: Mack the Crust.
Art: I mean, there are no good cops.
Sylvia: Yeah. I think, pointedly, probably does a bad job given the fact that our Alabaster’s trying to make them not as good. Though, he’s doing it through electoralism, it’s probably fine.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Art: Yeah.
Sylvia: He’s probably just trying to get more ‘good cops’ in there.
Keith: He’s a liberal at best.
Sylvia: Yeah. At best.
Keith: At best.
Sylvia: Oh I got one!
Keith: Uh huh?
Sylvia: A week later, what reckless last-ditch effort finally dooms your Conspirator? I don’t think she dies when she’s doing this, but I do think she tries to shoot her cousin in the street.
Dre: Jesus! Let’s go!
Keith: Whoa.
Sylvia: And I think she gets arrested while doing it. It’s just a week of like, she lost everything. She’s like, full fuckin’ comatose, waking coma vibes. Just starting off into space the whole time. And then is like, no. There’s only one way for me to get back what is rightfully mine. And instead she ends up in jail for the rest of her fucking days. Yeah. And it’s probably not even, actually she probably dies in jail pretty quick, if I’m being real, considering she made enemies of every single Laze.
Keith: Yeah. Dying in jail. I think dying in jail’s a great way to go.
Sylvia: Yeah. Like, once—
Keith: So we’ve got so far; thrown into lava, died falling down the stairs, and then died in jail?
Sylvia: Yeah. ‘Cause I think once people find out she’s the lady who made the trains that gave all their family members cancer…
Keith: Right.
Dre: Yeah, there’s probably not a lot of compassion there.
Sylvia: ‘Cause like, they’re going through fucking actual laze, right? That was the big thing with that. They’re going through the actual smog and stuff.
Keith: It was a cruel pun.
Sylvia: It very much was, yeah!
Keith: [chuckling] It was a very cruel pun. Yeah. Evil person. I’ve got one.
Sylvia: Yes.
Keith: A year later, who gathers with drinks to celebrate your Conspirator’s demise?  Everyone! [Sylvi laughs] The whole city! A whole city of people.
Sylvia: Happy Vug day!
Keith: This was like, a, y’know, the precipice of an irreversible depression is where they were, I think. And Vug getting, y’know, dethroned from the company and then thrown in jail was sort of in the nick of time for, to prevent economic disaster at a scale where I think it’s like, really affecting everybody. This is like, Vug is like weirdly the least successful, the least powerful person of the Conspirators, but maybe the most publicly facing and the most hated in some ways, at least.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: So I think it’s everyone. But, he is the only one left alive.
Sylvia: I kinda love that. Wait is that all of us?
Dre: No, [sighs] it was funny ‘cause as we went I was like, okay I’ll do this one, and then somebody picks it.
Sylvia: Oh no!
Keith: Oh, sorry Dre.
Dre: That’s okay, that’s okay, no, it’s fun. So we did a week later—
Keith: Who was it? Who screwed you over?
Dre: All of you. Just like Eliza said. [Keith and Art laugh]
Sylvia: Oh my god! Life imitates art! [yells]
Dre: Yeah. So we did a year later, a season later, and a week later, right?
Sylvia: Uh, yes.
Dre: Okay. A day later. Ohh…
Keith: Oh no!
Dre: Fuckin’, a day later, Eliza is still alive and Luetta finds her there. [Sylvi gasps] And she takes her dad’s knife and she stabs me to death with it.
Art: Fuck yeah!
Sylvia: That fucking rules.
Keith: Oh shit!
Art: I’m so happy we took everything you wanted! [Keith laughs]
Dre: Yeah yeah. This is way better.
Sylvia: Yeah me too.
Dre: This is way better. 
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: And then Luetta sells everything and moves far away. She doesn’t want to do any of this shit anymore. She doesn’t want the business, she doesn’t want the name, she just wants to get away from it all.
Keith: New husband: Iron.
Dre: Maybe!
Sylvia: Yo… damn! Well, shit! That’s the end of our game!
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Hey, thanks for doing this with me!
Art: Oh, it was wonderful.
Keith: Yeah, it was a ton of fun.
Sylvia: Yeah, I’m so happy with this weird little world we’ve created. I’m sure Oligo will show up again, it’s in a state of flux. Who knows? Maybe we can find out the aftermath of this someday in a different game.
Keith: One of my all time proudest moments comes from this game now.
Dre: Oh!
Sylvia: Really? Which one? I wanna know!
Keith: Alabaster Clad, finding Alabaster Clad. 
Dre: [cross] Oh my god. 
Sylvia: [cross] Yeah, that is one of the best— 
Dre: And making it an anagram, just… [kisses fingers]
Keith: Yeah! Unbelievable, I felt like I had won some sort of tabletop lottery.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: I feel like we have to bring him back in some form now, because the name is so good. Y’know?
Keith: Yeah, great name.
Dre: You saw the code in the Matrix when you made that name, Keith.
Sylvia: Yeah you really did Keith.
Keith: I was just possessed by a spirit to go to an anagram generator, something I never do.
Sylvia: Damn. The ghosts of actual play, making their way through you. Yeah, I, once again, would like to give a shoutout to Mousehole Press, the creators of this game, and Jack Harrison, the writer. Fantastic game—
Keith: You’re saying Mousehole, not Masshole, the cheeky nickname for people from Massachusetts.
Sylvia: Yeah, I’m not being, I’m not saying the M-slur to you. [Dre and Keith laugh]
Dre: Massachusetts-American discrimination is not welcome on this podcast.
Sylvia: Yeah, no no, I know a few people who would be upset with me for that. Um…I forgot what I was fuckin’ saying. [Dre laughs]
Keith: Mousehole Press.
Sylvia: Thank you everyone for listening, this is, y’know, it’s my first time facilitating something on Friends at the Table and I think it went pretty good. You guys did a fantastic job, I loved all our tangents along the way, and I’m literally raising my Diet Coke to you right now.
Keith: Oh, I’m raising my black cherry seltzer.
Dre: Ooh! I’m gonna raise my glass of water.
Art: I also, oh I have the very dregs of a can of Diet Coke.
Dre: Okay!
Sylvia: Hey! Hey, we got the same drink, y’know. What I was about to say is I don’t know how to end our recordings. ‘Cause we have a signoff for other stuff for the most parts, and I don’t think we do for this, so—
Keith: Bye.
Sylvia: Bye!
Dre: Yeah, bye.
Sylvia: Bye! Thanks for listening! Um. Yeah bye. [snickers] Yeah, bye.
[“Eyes of a Killer” by Jack de Quidt plays]