Live at the Table 69: Unincorporated Pt. 1
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Introduction        1
“Setup” [0:11:23]        16
“Questions” [0:20:25]        25
Answers [0:51:25]        52
“Plots” [1:15:45]        76
“Reputation” [1:39:42]        95
“Finish Setup” [1:43:27]        97
“Playing the Game” [1:52:46]        108
Break [2:02:25]        114
Ali’s Scene [2:08:08]        121
Sylvia’s Scene [2:23:10]        135
Janine’s Scene [2:38:40]        149
Keith’s Scene [2:49:45]        158
Introduction
Ali: Hellooo.
Sylvia: Oh, are we live now? 
Janine: Whoa.
Sylvia: Hi.
Ali: Hellooo! [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Hellooo!
Ali: Hi, everybody.
Sylvia: This is the whole stream, is just us going “Hellooo!”
Ali: Uh huh. [Janine laughs quietly] Oh, that’s so fun. Everybody would love that.
Sylvia: I think so. [Ali laughs] I'd love that, so, like…
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Who cares?
Ali: Exactly.
Janine: It’s the new meta, the hello stream. 
Sylvia: Hello.
Ali: The hello stream.
Janine: Everyone’s sick of NPC streams. They only want, like, friendly merchant streams, where you just say, “Hello!” and then they buy some herbs from you.
Ali: Did I put the— we're [cross] friendsatthetable.twitch.tv.
Sylvia: [cross] “You don't have enough gold.” That’s one of the other lines you can say.
[music starts playing briefly]
Keith: Herbs for sale.
Ali: Oh. Sorry to—
Keith: Oh! 
Ali: [laughs] Sorry to everybody at home who just heard two seconds of a Twitch ad playing on my speakers while I'm trying to see the chat here.
Sylvia: Come on.
Ali: I know. This is amateur hour.
Sylvia: These greedy fuckers. [Ali laughs]
Janine: I was expecting, when you said, “Apologies for people hearing,” and then I thought the next thing was gonna be, like, a K-Pop song or, like…
Ali: Oh. [Sylvia laughs]
Janine: A football man being like, “We gotta get ‘em!” or something, you know?
Ali: A football man [cross] saying, “We gotta get ‘em”?
Sylvia: [cross] A football man?
Janine: [laughs] I don't know.
Keith: [voice modulated] We gotta get ‘em. Yeah, we gotta get ‘em.
Sylvia: Ah! [laughter] 
Keith: [modulated] Yeah, football. We're gonna get ‘em.
Ali: That’s not what they sound like. Football guys don't sound like that. 
Sylvia: Yeah, they do.
Keith: [modulated] Yes, they do! [Ali laughs]
Janine: What do they sound like, Ali? 
Keith: [modulated] Hoo! Yeah!
Janine: Why don't you accidentally play a football guy for us, and then we'll know? [laughter] 
Sylvia: I don't know. That sounds like a football guy to me.
Ali: Mm…
Janine: That’s a football guy.
Keith: [modulated] You can tell that I'm a football guy, because I'm carrying around this football under my arm—
Ali: No, that sounds like… [laughs] 
Keith: [modulated] —and wearing this cool jacket that cool guys wear.
Ali: That sounds like a—
Keith: [modulated] Yeah!
Janine: Do you play for the Seattle Rats?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: [modulated] Yeah, I play for the Seattle Rats!
Ali: Wow. [Janine laughs quietly] 
Keith: [modulated] Scored a victory! Yeah!
Ali: Sorry about this last season.
Sylvia: Wait, no, now you're the Halo announcer. Sorry. [Ali and Janine laugh] The Halo announce— or maybe not Halo—
Keith: [modulated] Killimanjaro. 
Sylvia: —but you became a shooter announcer.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Can I get, like, a…what do they say? 
Sylvia: Killimanjaro?
Ali: Yeah. No, like, [imitating] “Triple Kill,” or like… 
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah. [Ali laughs]
Keith: [modulated] Double Kill.
Sylvia: That’s the Halo guy! [Ali laughs]
Janine: Whoa.
Keith: [modulated] Killtacular. Killtrocity. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yo!
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: [modulated] Kilimanjaro!
Sylvia: I can't believe I know the Halo guy. 
Janine: Any sound.
Sylvia: Why didn't you say that was you?
Ali: That, wow.
Keith: Uh, it’s just something I can do. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: That’s nuts. [Janine laughs]
Keith: I try not to make a big deal out of it.
Ali: Wow. Okay, well, with that settled: welcome, everybody.
Keith: Medal final.
Ali: I know. [laughs] Hi, everybody. Today, we're gonna be playing a tabletop game, which is unusual for us, I know. [Sylvia laughs] So, just to be transparent, I was like, “For some reason, I really want to play a Bluff City game, and for some reason, I really want to play a Bluff City game with a bunch of people who work at a grocery store.” [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah. I remember this.
Ali: I don't know why this struck me, but I wanted to play this. We were thinking of doing Fiasco for it, but I found Unincorporated by Ethan Harvey, ethanharvey.itch.io, which, like, gives me Fiasco vibes but has, like, some I think sort of important, like, you know, [laughs] rules changes [Sylvia: Mm-hmm.] that I think will make this sort of like a smaller, more honest story to just being, like, normal folks, and also has some cool…I like the answer system in this game. I think I'm gonna scroll down a bit. Actually, let me change scenes so everybody can see our Itch here that Keith isn't in for some reason.
Keith: Oh, I clicked on it. It just didn't launch. [Ali laughs] Here we go.
Sylvia: Too busy being the Halo guy football man.
Keith: Sometimes I—
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: When you first join, there’s an extra step.
Ali: Oh, sure, sure, sure. Sure.
Keith: When you join the game.
Ali: Oh my god, is this not scrolling? Oh.
Keith: Oh, there’s ads, because you're not Austin.
Ali: Oh, I need you to scroll, OBS! Why aren't you scrolling? [laughs] 
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Keith: Wait, no, you don't scroll in the OBS.
Sylvia: I know what you're trying to show off too, and it’s good. [Ali sighs]
Keith: You scroll on the thing that it’s capturing.
Ali: Oh, do I have— I think I have two windows that are this, that are both this, so I'm…OBS? Okay, yes.
Sylvia: Okay, yeah.
Ali: Spoilers for later in character creation. We have a Jock/Nerd/Prep/Goth table that we're gonna be dealing with later on. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: I read this and was like, “Hey, I need to be in this game.” [Ali laughs] Hey.
Keith: Do I need to bring football guy back out?
Ali: You might. [laughs] 
Sylvia: That’s what I'm saying. You never know.
Keith: It’s a new—
Ali: You might have to.
Keith: I don't think I've played a jock in a game before.
Janine: I mean, I will say a great—
Keith: Gig is almost a jock.
Sylvia: Eh?
Janine: What I know about this game is that a great situation to tee up would be high school athlete and then, like, coach, high school coach.
Ali: Ooh. Yeah.
Janine: You know? Keep it in a back pocket. You never know.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Uh huh. Yeah, we're gonna think about this. So yeah, we're gonna jump to that. Before we jump into the game in earnest, I'm gonna say one thing now, which is that later in the stream—
Keith: Uh oh. [Ali, Keith, and Janine laugh]
Ali: Later—
Keith: I know what’s coming, everybody. Buckle up. 
Ali: Later in the stream, there’s gonna be a merch giveaway. We're testing out a system with Fourthwall. Fourthwall is— Keith’s a little quiet. I'll fix that. Fourthwall is doing this giveaway and is giving away some merch, so we will be participating in that. That should happen at 7:30, so we'll be in the middle—
Janine: To be clear, it’s our merch. It’s not Fourthwall merch.
Ali: Yes, it’s not just— yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: It’s our merch through Fourthwall.
Ali: [laughs] Yes. Yes.
Sylvia: Importantly.
Ali: I don't know what’s gonna be given away, because there’s a Fourthwall employee who’s going to come into our chat and do it later, [Sylvia: Oh.] and I didn't turn anything off. I didn't turn anything on.
Janine: Interesting. I was wondering why it had to be, like, scheduled like that.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah.
Ali: Yeah. Well, it’s 'cause they’re, like, billing it. The way this usually works is, like, subs usually work.
Janine: Right.
Ali: Where like, somebody would buy a community copy t-shirt, and then we would have, like, a giveaway in the chat.
Sylvia: Oh, I see.
Janine: Right.
Ali: Which just seems, like, a little weird. We don't know how to encourage or discourage that yet.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: But to test the system, Fourthwall is bringing the purse, so to speak. So, I do have— I don't know what’s— I haven't set up Streamlabs. I know that I do this professionally, but I haven't, so instead, I just have this. [laughs] It’s very handy.
Keith: Well, everybody turned off Streamlabs when OBS got publicly mad at Streamlabs for being kind of shady.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Oh, I didn't know that.
Janine: And then Streamlabs changed their name to, like, Streamlabs…
Keith: Right.
Ali: There’s, like, StreamElements?
Sylvia: You should take it down. People are doing it. People are doing it.
Janine: No, no, no!
Ali: Oh, well, just— okay, everybody can test it out. Everybody can see how it feels.
Janine: Everybody can test it out typing in the word? Come on. [Ali laughs]
Keith: This is just King of the Castle all over again.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: This is a crowd of people who knows how to type.
Ali: Okay. Well… [laughs] 
Janine: You know?
Ali: All of that stuff you just did: do it later.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Wow.
Ali: But that’s basically— this is going to be your symbol. 
Keith: Good practice, though.
Ali: When this comes on, the giveaway is happening.
Janine: It’s not a symbol when it’s a phrase.
Sylvia: No, they're gonna do it again! [Ali laughs]
Janine: It’s an actual string of text.
Keith: Hey, a phrase is just a symbol. It’s just… [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Wow.
Keith: It’s just a symbol that everyone gets.
Janine: Wow.
Keith: Like, it’s a…
Sylvia: Getting a little V for Vendetta over here. A phrase is just a symbol. [Janine and Ali laugh]
Keith: A phrase is just a symbol. 
Ali: So, that’s gonna be the situation. There’s going to be a Fourthwall bot in at approximately 30 minutes. Everybody’s up to speed. We're all— okay.
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah. The giveaway? Yeah, absolutely. 
Ali: [laughs] Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, I get it.
Ali: Okay. Chat, you know what’s going on. Be ready.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: And then, I don't know, we'll talk about it afterwards, how this goes. [laughs] We're all testing it together. But otherwise…
Keith: Speaking of testing, am I still quiet? I'm listening in.
Ali: Oh, I think that I did bump you a little bit.
Keith: Yes. No, I'm still quiet.
Ali: You're 150, now 60% in Discord.
Keith: In Discord?
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: I can— oh, oh. I actually— sorry, this is my fault. I know why I'm quiet. I know why I'm quiet.
Janine: Uh huh?
Keith: It’s 'cause Kyle was here doing Run Button yesterday, and when we're in the room with the two mics, I reduce our volume by 50%.
Ali: Oh.
Janine: Ah, well.
Keith: So I was at, like, 20 dbs instead of—
Ali: 50%?
Keith: Yeah, I go from 30 down to 20.
Ali: Okay. Well, now I'm taking you…
Keith: Well, I guess that would be reducing it by 33%, but then when I put it back to 50 or when I put it back to 100 or 30, that’s going up by 50.
Sylvia: [sarcastic] Yeah, totally.
Keith: Percentages are crazy.
Ali: I believe you.
Sylvia: I'm saying that all the time.
Janine: Everyone remember this for later. It’ll be important. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Yeah, that will be on the test, by the way. You will have to…we are going to do a one question math quiz.
Janine: You're gonna have to type exclamation point, enter, and then talk about how many percentages Keith’s volume was down.
Ali: Wow.
Sylvia: I hate this.
Janine: Or up. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: I hate math so much. My ears are— steam is coming out of my ears like I'm Gon Freecss.
Ali: Huh? Oh, right. Okay, yeah.
Sylvia: Listen to Media Club Plus. He’s bad at math.
Keith: Oh, listen to Media Club Plus, by the way. 
Ali: Media Club Plus.
Janine: Oh.
Keith: You can watch— or, you gotta also watch Hunter × Hunter to see Gon Freecss get steam ears from doing math. [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Both of you, when you say that, it sounds like you're saying “going freaks,” like it’s the cool, the new—
Sylvia: Yeah, that’s why I like saying his name so much.
Janine: Okay. Huh.
Keith: Yeah. His last name is Freecss.
Janine: Going freaks.
Sylvia: His last name is Freecss.
Keith: There’s just no…
Janine: What?
Keith: There’s no avoiding that his last name is Freecss.
Janine: Okay. Okay.
Sylvia: F-R-E-E-C-S-S.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: If you say so.
Janine: Okay.
Sylvia: I do. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Eh, uh huh.
Keith: I didn't come up with it.
Sylvia: We can move on, but I do say so. 
Ali: [laughs] How do we feel about opening this book and starting to play it?
Keith: Great.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: Strong. [Ali laughs] Powerful.
Janine: I feel goth and/or prep about it.
Ali: Whoa! Okay.
Sylvia: I'm feeling a little jock or nerd, honestly.
Ali: If you say so.
Keith: [jock voice] I feel like skipping this and going to the gym. [Ali laughs] Oh, wait, did it not work? Did my button not work?
Sylvia: No, it didn't, but it’s fine. It makes it even better. 
Keith: Wow.
Janine: Which Hunter × Hunter character is Jockor Nerd?
Sylvia: Um… [Ali laughs quietly]
Keith: A lot of them are jocks.
Janine: What’s his ability?
Sylvia: A lot of them are jock.
Ali: Mm.
Janine: No, no, the full name: Jockor Nerd.
Sylvia: Oh, Jockor Nerd?
Keith: Oh, Jockor Nerd. Oh, yeah.
Sylvia: He hasn't shown up yet where we're watching. He’s in the Chimera Ant Arc.
Janine: Oh.
Ali: Oh. Okay. You can see how—
Janine: All right, good talk. 
Sylvia: Eh, yeah. [Ali and Janine laugh] That’s what I got for you. 
Ali: Okay, I've added a completely busted source of this game, so we can all read along together.
Sylvia: Hell yeah.
Ali: Chat, you're here too, reading the book, and let’s jump into it. Hi. Hello. Credits, et cetera.
Janine: Hi, hello. 
Ali: [laughing] Hello.
“Setup” [0:11:23]
Ali: Okay. Setup. “An optimistic person might call this place a town. It has a post office, a gas station, a few stores, and not many people, which makes the ones who are here important. You see the same few people everywhere: your co-workers, your cousin’s ex, and the drummer in your best friend’s band. Too bad they still hate you for stealing their homecoming date 20 years ago. The people here might not be your friends, but they know you. They know about all the stupid things you’ve done and won’t let you forget it. Your reputation follows you, no matter how outdated it is. Nobody gets a clean slate here. Unincorporated is a game about being stuck together in a small community with a limited pool of other people. The other characters are ordinary people caught up in petty dramas, grudges, and hopeless love affairs, while trying to shake off the weight of their reputations and define who they are for themselves.” Here we are. Here we are.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Also, we should say: this is Unincorporated by Ethan Harvey.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: I think we— Ali did at the top of the stream.
Janine: Oh, did we? Okay. 
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: It’s also in the title.
Janine: Yeah, okay. I just wanted to be 100% clear. [Ali and Sylvia chuckle3]
Ali: Uh huh. Yeah, shoutout to Ethan for writing this game. Let’s jump— we can just run into character creation. I guess, up top, do we want to talk about things we don't want to include, just straight up?
Sylvia: I feel like, for lines and veils, at this point of playing tabletop games together, we kind of have an idea [Janine: True.] of stuff that we don't want to get into. This seems like we're going pretty lighthearted. I don't think we're gonna be doing anything too grim here.
Ali: Mm-hmm. [laughs] 
Sylvia: We don't need to be like, “Yo, no disemboweling.” It’s like, yeah, no, for sure. The grocery store’s not gonna have any of that. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Keith: [cross] I was actually thinking of disemboweling in this one.
Janine: [cross] But, you know, you could have, like, a butcher who’s cutting stuff, and it’s icky.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: That’s true. Sorry, Keith, I didn't realize you were gonna be a big disemboweler today. My bad.
Ali: Whoa! [laughs] 
Keith: [cross] Well, that’s gonna be my high school, the—
Janine: [cross] Harry the Disemboweler’s working cash again, everybody.
Keith: That’s the mascot of the football team, the Disembowelers.
Ali: Sure. Yeah, okay.
Janine: Ohh.
Sylvia: Wait, that I fuck with, actually. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Keith: Yeah, the mascot is, uh, Ben of Ben’s Knife fame.
Sylvia: Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Hmm.
Sylvia: You guys are gonna love that when Media Club Plus episode… [Ali laughs] Just trust me.
Keith: Oh, y'all don't know Benny Delon?
Ali: Oh.
Sylvia: No, they don't know shit about Benny.
Janine: Uh…oh, I was—
Ali: We'll have to find out.
Sylvia: Are there any—
Ali: Mm?
Sylvia: Oh, go ahead.
Janine: I was gonna say, like, a thing that we should probably say. So, this isn't in the intention of the book, but sometimes when we read a new— when we get exposed to a new game, my brain immediately does the thing of, like, “What would the worst person you've ever played a tabletop game with do with this game?”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: And I think we just, you know—
Keith: [laughs] That’s wild. 
Janine: You know, for a while, I was on a kick of just, like…back before Reddit reading posts became, like, super saturated and they weren't very boring.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm?
Ali: Mm.
Janine: I would watch, like, videos of someone playing Dungeons & Dragons Online and then reading Reddit posts from, like, tabletop horror stories Reddits. And so it, like, put in my brain this kind of person I've never actually met [Ali laughs quietly] who does bad things when they play these games.
Ali: Mm-hmm?
Janine: So, the thing I want to say here again is that I don't think the book sets this up, but I can imagine a person reading this and being like, “Oh, here’s what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna do, like, People of Walmart: The Game,” or something like that, something very, like, derisive and yucky, and I think it’s worth saying, like, we should— you know, I don't think this is an issue we'll have.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: But I think it’s worth, like, looking at it directly so that we don't, like, accidentally slip into, like, trashy stereotyping. I think the game does use the word “trashy” somewhere.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: But like, you know, there’s a lot of, like, really shitty, often classist, baggage wrapped up in stuff like that, [Sylvia: Mm.] and I just wanted to point out that that’s a trap we could fall into accidentally, and that way hopefully we definitely won't.
Sylvia: For sure.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah, I was thinking about that, leading up to this. I've never done— I've done a ton of retail and I've done, like, con work and stuff like that, but I've never done, like, [Keith: Mm-hmm.] food service in that way, and I know that this is, like, a completely different monster.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Ali:  Also, we don't have to go with the grocery store. We can find, like, another, um…profession, if it…
Keith: Talking about the…okay.
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: If it jumps out to us through character creation. But that sort of like— and especially, like, with what I read with the game, like, this is a small town. There’s just a gas station.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Ali: We know that that’s also sort of not true about what we've set up in Bluff City, but like, the intimacy and the, like, tone of the game, of like, the people who are around you are people you can't escape from, I think, like, [Keith: Mm-hmm.] works with the setting and will work with the tone of the story that we want to do today, on its own, without it being like…
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: You know, “Why does this person, you know, work at a checkout lane in a grocery store?” 'cause, you know, a lot of people do for a lot of reasons.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Yeah, the answer is just they need to pay rent.
Ali: Uh huh. 
Janine: Yeah, uh huh. 
Sylvia: It’s a pretty easy question to answer.
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: It’s one of five buildings in the center of town.
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: In the setup of this game, you know, there’s not a ton of stuff.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Whoops. That’s not… [Ali laughs quietly] Sorry. I realize we didn't update NightBot for this.
Ali: Mm.
Janine: We are not playing The Veil by Fraser Simons.
Keith: Who’s that big man? [all laugh]
Sylvia: That’s football man, Keith’s beloved new character.
Keith: [modulated] Yeah, that’s me. We're talking about me here. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah!
Keith: [modulated] [chuckles] Get ready to catch this! I'm gonna throw it so far. I can throw 500 yards.
Sylvia: Yes, coach!
Ali: Wow. Wow. Okay, that scared me a little bit. [Sylvia laughs] Anyway. Okay. Those are all great lines. I think for veils, just, like, general violence. Death, probably. I don't know that anyone’s dying.
Keith: We're not playing Postal. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Well, like…
Janine: I mean, you could do death in a— has anyone else here watched Superstore?
Ali: I have not.
Sylvia: No.
Keith: Uh, I know of Superstore.
Janine: Okay. Well, you're not really missing— people will say it’s very good, and it’s fine. [Ali laughs] But, you know, there’s—
Keith: That’s the vibe I got.
Janine: They do death in a way that’s interesting.
Ali: Oh.
Janine: You know, you can do death in a way that’s not, like, awful.
Ali: Oh, sure.
Sylvia: No violent death, I think, is a better way to put it, yeah?
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: Someone can get crushed by a forklift in a funny way. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: That’s true. People can get hit by buses in funny ways in TV all the time.
Keith: No being— no death that’s, like, disgusting and lascivious. 
Ali: Sure. Yeah. [laughs] That’s a fine veil.
Janine: That’s a bit rich coming from the disemboweler, but okay. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Keith: He’s a cartoon mascot! He’s fun! He never kills anyone at the games anymore.
Ali: Wow. Okay.
Sylvia: Anymore? [Ali and Janine laugh] Sorry, I was drinking. Anymore? 
Keith: Yeah, anymore! Look.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: Don't— let’s not get into it.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Because of woke, can't do it anymore. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Wow.
Sylvia: Can't even disembowel a guy.
Keith: Can't go to a football game, have someone get killed anymore.
Sylvia: It’s fucking bullshit.
Keith: What, are we playing football in short pants?
Ali: Does anyone have any wishes [Ali and Keith laughing] for what they want to see in this game?
Sylvia: Hmm. I think I'm wishing for the Disemboweler to be a mascot.
Ali: Wow. Okay, sure. [Sylvia laughs]
Janine: I simply wish for hijinks.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Okay. All right.
Janine: You know?
Keith: I like hijinks.
Ali: I think we can manage that. Okay. 
Janine: Aim low, and you'll never be disappointed. Hijinks.
Ali: [laughs] Whoa, okay.
Janine: I'm just saying we naturally will have hijinks no matter what, so it’s good, you know?
Ali: I think so.
Keith: Right.
Ali: Uh huh. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I think we're kind of all on the same page, so we can jump into creating characters.
Janine: Hell yeah.
Ali: Each of us create a character. Shocking.
Keith: Got it.
Ali: [laughs] Keith, do you want to read through the Answers section of the book?
Keith: Sure. Yeah, I can do that.
Ali: Thank you.
Keith: Uh, bum bum bum…sorry, I was scrolled down a couple…the answers. What page is that?
Sylvia: Do you mean Questions on page six?
Keith: Oh, Questions. There we go.
Ali: The Questions. [laughs] 
Sylvia: It’s okay.
Keith: I was like, “Oh, I must be on the wrong page.”
Ali: Different word.
“Questions” [0:20:25]
Keith: Okay. [reading] “By answering a few questions, you'll create setting details and connect them to your character’s background. Take turns picking questions from each list. Answer them for your own character by making up a person, place, or thing or picking one from the examples list. Don't use another PC as the answer for a question. Even though you're choosing the question and answering it yourself, it helps to answer it out loud. The other players might use your answer in the last run of questions. Be specific. Not just ‘car’, but ‘Maggie’s red jeep.’ Write the answers on the reference sheet so everyone can see them. Go around one more time. On this round, each player chooses one question from any of the lists. Don't create a new setting detail for this question. Answer it with one of the people, places, or things that were created in the first three rounds. It’s okay to answer a question someone else has already answered if both PCs could have been involved or if the event could have happened more than once. When you're done answering questions, each player should have created one person, one place, and one thing, and some of them should be connected to more than one PC.”
Sylvia: Okay.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: So, if I'm understanding that right, there’s, like, these subheaders of People, Places and Things.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: We're answering one of each for our characters, and then we're going around and just picking another?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay, cool.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Yeah, we each get three, like, personal from each category, and then for our fourth one, we choose one from any of the categories, and then one of the answers has to be from somebody else’s answer.
Sylvia: Okay, cool.
Ali: I also, if you see on the Roll20 here, have very [laughs quietly] very straightforward little character sections.
Sylvia: Should we all scramble to claim one now?
Ali: You know, go ahead.
Sylvia: Okay.
Ali: Don't fight over them.
Sylvia: This is my one. I put my [indistinct]. [Ali laughs] I didn't even make it look good. I just knocked it on there. [Keith laughs]
Ali: Wow. Wow. Roll20 is bad now? I don't know if you guys knew that Roll20 was bad now.
Sylvia: No?
Keith: Mm.
Ali: I know that we just had a whole… [laughs quietly] Spoilers for anybody who’s listened to the Friends at the Table feed is that we recorded PALISADE on Sunday, and we had, like, an especially bad Roll20 time doing that.
Keith: Yeah. With, like, basic stuff that we've been doing [Ali: Mm-hmm.] forever and ever like moving things around.
Ali: Right. So like, when I was trying to make, like, one of these columns, and then I was like, “Oh, I'll just copy and delete them, so they'll have the same space and the same words in the same place,” I wasn't able to do that? So that’s why they're a little mismatched. 
Sylvia: Eh. They're all unique.
Janine: Remember when I tried to make a circle, and Austin completely fell apart? [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: That, you know what? Justified. 
Janine: ‘Cause he couldn't move the circles?
Ali: I do remember that.
Janine: I know. It was weird and broken.
Ali: I do remember that. [laughs quietly] Okay. I'm gonna take this leftmost one.
Sylvia: Okay. Who’s the heart?
Janine: Mm.
Sylvia: Okay. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Me.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Sorry, I was drinking.
Sylvia: No, it’s all good.
Keith: And just to confirm, we're gonna each pick one from each list.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And then the last round is any list, [Ali: Mm-hmm.] but it’s the one that incorporates someone else.
Ali: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Keith: Okay.
Ali: Mm-hmm. And we can probably— we can do this together in a round, if we all want to tackle people together and then places and things.
Keith: Sure.
Janine: I thrive on demonstration, so.
Ali: Ooh, wow.
Keith: Do we want to do our first go around?
Ali: Sure. I just want to type my own name on my own box.
Keith: Oh, I haven't— I didn't— I chose to not participate in the…
Sylvia: Yeah. The bloodsport.
Keith: In the rush to pick a seat. [Ali laughs] 
Sylvia: Weird for the disemboweler.
Keith: So I did get the last spot. That’s fine.
Ali: Oh, that’s so little. Okay. That’s where I am. You know, character name and gender is gonna go up on the top, but I feel like we have to figure out more vibes here.
Janine: Okay.
Ali: So, the…who’s messaging me on Discord? [laughs] The people questions we have are: Who’s marrying the person you're secretly in love with? Who do you owe a debt you can't pay? Who still holds a grudge from that fight you had years ago? Whose name did you once paint on a bridge? 
Sylvia: God. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Ali: Who knows something that you—
Sylvia: No, wait, that’s real as fuck. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Who knows something that could get you fired? Who do you meet secretly? Who would you never forgive— who would never forgive you if they knew what you did? Who annoys you, even though everybody likes them? Who have you secretly helped when they needed it? And who do you admire, even though they can't stand you? Which are some fucking banger questions.
Sylvia: These are so good. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Great questions.
Ali: Um…
Sylvia: When one of these is answered, are they crossed off the list or no?
Ali: I think so? I don't know.
Sylvia: I just wanted— that could be how we do it.
Keith: I think that it said, except for the last one, to— oh, no, it doesn't say. It never says don't answer a question someone else has answered. It actually does say you can use something else, as long as it’s plausible that someone else would be answering the same question.
Sylvia: Okay.
Ali: Mm, okay. Okay, perfect. Oh, man. [sighs] 
Janine: Do we want to do questions first and then, like, here’s their name, here’s their job?
Sylvia: That’s what I was thinking.
Janine: Or the other way around.
Sylvia: Was that the questions sort of inform the thing.
Keith: Sure.
Janine: Okay. Yeah.
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: But, you know.
Ali: Yeah, I was thinking that we would build the character backgrounds first, and then we would feel more comfortable being like, “This is my guy, Joe,” or whatever. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Joe Disemboweler.
Ali: Uh huh, uh huh.
Janine: Sylvi, did you want the bridge one?
Sylvia: I did, yeah. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Okay.
Sylvia: I've done that before, you know?
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: Uh huh.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: I feel like it has to be a train bridge specifically. Something about the train, I don't know.
Sylvia: I feel like that fits the setting too.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Mm. Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: I think I'm gonna go “Who do you admire, even though they can't stand you?”
Keith: Okay.
Ali: Oop. Oop. Okay. 
Sylvia: Shoutout to Joe de Vivre in the chat. 
Ali: [laughs] Let’s go!
Sylvia: That was an all-time name. [Janine laughs quietly] 
Ali: Okay.
Sylvia: Shoutout to his unseen sister Joy who I was too busy to get to. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Ali: Who do I admire even though they can't stand me?
Sylvia: I've got a giant fucking name generator for this.
Ali: Oh, let’s go!
Sylvia: Because I'm not going to be able to pull these off the top of my head. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Oh, yeah, I pulled up an old favorite, an old favorite of forever ago, fakepersongenerator.com.
Ali: [quietly] Fake person…
Janine: Which is the one that will give you, like, a whole-ass person [Sylvia: Oh, yeah.] and, like, their phone number, their email address.
Ali: Oh. [Keith laughs]
Janine: Their star sign, their job. I pulled up a guy who I'm determined to work into my character here.
Ali: Wow.
Janine: And I just want to say his employment, as the generator gave—which is not going to be true, obviously—is that he works part time at the library, or no, sorry, he’s a part-time librarian at the Stop & Shop, and he makes $9,000 a month. [Keith laughs]
Ali: He’s a—
Keith: He’s a part-time librarian at the Stop & Shop?
Janine: Yeah. [laughs] 
Keith: Oh, the Stop & Shop library.
Janine: Money laundering. Yeah.
Ali: I have— I used to go to—
Keith: Just a very well-funded initiative.
Ali: Yeah, I used to go to Albertsons, which had a video rental, like, in it, so I imagine—
Janine: Did it have a librarian? [Keith laughs]
Ali: Well, if you switch out the videos for books, then yes. [laughs] 
Keith: And remove the rental aspect.
Janine: So there was a video librarian there? 
Ali: [laughs] You know, this is actual play. This is the power of imagination, and what I'm imagining is the Albertsons video rental but with books, and therefore there’s a librarian. [Sylvia laughs]
Janine: Mm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Ali: So.
Keith: Who’s next? Oh, Ali, you haven't answered yet.
Ali: I haven't answered yet.
Keith: Or do we collect our answers or questions before we answer?
Ali: Oh, maybe we can do that. Do you want to do that, and then we can sort of do a thing to ourselves little situation?
Sylvia: Yeah, that makes sense.
Keith: Yeah, that might accelerate things a little bit.
Ali: Okay. Does anybody want to read the Places questions?
Sylvia: Yeah, I got you.
Ali: Ooh, thank you.
Sylvia: “Where have you stopped going, though you used to go all the time? Where did you meet both your worst enemy and your best friend? Where did they find the body? Where do you go to get away from your family? Where are you afraid to go, even though you know it’s irrational? Where do you always run into someone you know? Where did you hide something valuable? Where was your worst job ever? Where did a wild rumor you still kind of believe supposedly take place? Where did you make a complete fool of yourself?” These are good questions!
Keith: These are good questions.
Ali: These are good questions. [laughs] 
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Any claims? Any immediate vibes? Any magnetic feelings?
Keith: I love these. I've gotta absorb them, but I don't mind… [Ali laughs] I have no immediate claims.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: I'm not taking— I don't have a bridge answer like Sylvi does.
Ali: Okay, sure.
Sylvia: I got two good names in the chat if anybody— that I'm declaring, like, free— or in my name generator, if anybody wants either of these.
Ali: Mm-hmm?
Sylvia: I put them in the Discord. I'm not gonna say them out loud.
Ali: Ooh.
Sylvia: If they get used, they get used.
Ali: Wow. Thank you.
Sylvia: Eh, it’s fine. 
Ali: Can we— [laughs] 
Sylvia: And I might use them. You know? I might change my mind. 
Ali: [laughs] These are some…these are some fucking names!
Janine: Damn, all right! [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Good names, right? I was like, “Hold on, I need to screenshot these before I regenerate.”
Keith: Oh, yeah. That’s great.
Sylvia: Yeah, like…
Keith: Yeah, love that. All right, I'm starting my…I’ve got my places, or sorry, I got my people question.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: I'm taking: Who still holds a grudge against— from that fight you still had years ago?
Ali: Ooh.
Keith: “Who still holds a grudge from that fight you had years ago?”
Ali: Wow. I think I'm going to take, for places, “Where are you afraid to go, even though you know it’s irrational?”
Sylvia: Oh, that’s a good one. 
Ali: I was really torn between this or “Where did a wild rumor, that you still kind of believe, take place?”
Sylvia: That’s also a really good one! [Ali laughs]
Keith: I love that as soon as you put text in the box it just becomes blurry.
Ali: Mm-hmm. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah, you know. [Keith and Ali laugh]
Keith: Like, it’s not blurry when you're typing it, and then you commit it to the box, and then it goes, “Okay, resolution—”
Sylvia: That’s how you know it’s real, because it’s blurred. 
Keith: “Resolution way down.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: It’s bizarre.
Ali: And Roll20 sends us all these emails about updates that they have made.
Sylvia: Eh, I'm not reading all that. I'm happy for you or sorry that happened. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Okay, I have a couple questions that I've answered here.
Ali: Okay.
Janine: Who do you meet secretly? My guitar instructor, Denise Villereal.
Ali: Whoa.
Janine: Where have you stopped going, though you used to go all the time? Meatballs.
Ali: Meatballs?
Janine: Meatballs.
Ali: [laughs] Is that a…is that a chain? Is that a store?
Janine: Like, a bar.
Ali: Ohh.
Janine: Or like, you know, it’s probably— I feel like it’s maybe like an Italian restaurant that became a bar, something like that, you know?
Ali: Mm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Janine: Because no one actually wanted to sit down. They always wanted to sit at the bar, so like, all right, fuck.
Ali: Yeah, let’s put our money into that. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Oh.
Ali: Okay. Does anybody have any answers they want to give, or do we want to move onto reading Things?
Sylvia: I have my answer for the first one. I'm still figuring out the second one.
Keith: So, here’s another thing.
Ali: Mm-hmm?
Sylvia: Oh, why is that…
Keith: Roll20 has changed how you, like, alter a text box.
Ali: Uh huh.
Keith: I, like, can no longer figure out how to do a line break. It’s just not working. [Ali laughs] Like, I can't make it multiple lines.
Sylvia: [sarcastic] It’s so cool.
Janine: It was working for me.
Keith: Mine just is forever extending a line out. I can't change the dimensions of this box. It, like, won't work.
Janine: Oh, wait, but can you just hit return?
Keith: No, no. Cannot. 
Janine: Oh. Well, I— hmm.
Ali: Yeah, enter just lets you do the line break.
Keith: No, not for me, not today.
Janine: What about shift enter? [Ali laughs]
Keith: I tried that. I just deleted the whole box. I'm gonna do a new box.
Ali: Okay.
Janine: Cool. [laughs quietly] 
Ali: I love “Not for me, not today.” [laughter and sighing] Janine, okay. As Keith struggles, do you want to read us the Things questions?
Janine: Yeah. I already know which one I'm gonna claim and everything.
Ali: Ooh, wow.
Janine: Things: What did your weirdest relative give you for your 18th birthday? What does your friend have that you believe should be yours? What gift does your ex refuse to take back? What do you own but never use because you're afraid to mess it up? What are you sure nobody will miss if you take it? What has your neighbor been trying to sell for months with no offers? What did you pawn when you needed money? What would solve a big problem if you had it? What do you have that is very recognizable as yours? What important thing did you lose the other day?
Sylvia: You know that show with the Star Trek guy who says all the questions and there’s, like, the supercuts of it where it’s like, “Do you believe in the power of a curse?”
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: This is what I'm picturing now.
Janine: Beyond Belief: Fact or Fiction?
Sylvia: Thank you, yeah. [Ali laughs]
Janine: That’s a good— you should watch that. It’s very— it’s so cursed.
Sylvia: I bet I'd like it.
Janine: Austin and I recently watched it from, like…I don't remember if we went back and watched season one, where it’s, like, the other guy, Dennis Farina, but we watched all of the Frakes episodes, and it was a fantastic time. It’s so good. There’s one episode where there’s a bunch of students who find a piece of chalk that when they write on the board with it, it moans. 
Ali: [laughing] What?
Sylvia: Uh oh.
Janine: It moans in, like, a really upsetting way.
Keith: Now, that was real. That was fact. That was fact. That happened.
Janine: No, that one was fact, I believe. [Ali and Janine laugh] Anyway. Y'all can look that up.
Ali: Yeah, uh huh. I'm gonna take “What are you sure nobody will miss if you take it?”
Janine: Mm.
Ali: That one’s for me.
Janine: I'm snagging “What gift does your ex refuse to take back?”
Ali: Ooh.
Keith: We are…we’re definitely in a grocery store, right? I can start mixing that into…
Sylvia: I feel like…
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Okay, good.
Sylvia: Here’s a question about our grocery store. 
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Is it just groceries, or is this, like, a Target situation where there’s different sections and stuff?
Ali: Oh. See, I don't know. I haven't seen, like, a superstore of that nature in just small towns, right?
Sylvia: That’s fair, right.
Janine: But…
Keith: I would say I've only seen— or I think that’s predominantly where they are, is in small towns.
Sylvia: It’s one of the two, right? Where it’s like, either they're not there, or they're the only game in town, right? [Ali laughs]
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: I mean, so, there’s definitely a thing that happens. There’s a Canadian chain called Zehrs.
Ali: Ooh.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Janine: No. [Sylvia chuckles] But they have—
Keith: Their tagline is “Won't you zay you love us?” [Ali laughs]
Janine: Ugh. Even the just, like, really just normal ones that used to just be food added, like, a clothing department, and it’s all, like, Joe Fresh clothing?
Keith: Excuse me?
Janine: That’s the brand? [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Canadian brand?
Janine: But it’s all just, like, basic t-shirts and stuff? And then it’s just like, okay, so you get your bag of frozen french fries and then your eggs, and then you go get a Joe Fresh t-shirt, and then you can go to the cashier. So, there could potentially be— even though it could— like, it could still be a grocery store that has some shit. Like, a florist department and, like, you know, t-shirts.
Sylvia: Okay. Yeah, that’s what my hometown has a lot of.
Ali: This is gonna—
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Let’s just…
Sylvia: We’ll fig—
Ali: I have a General Notes section down here.
Sylvia: Okay.
Ali: Let’s just write down departments that we want to be seen. [laughs] 
Sylvia: That’s, you know what?
Keith: Yeah. That’s good.
Sylvia: A way better idea.
Ali: [typing] Florist, produce, butcher, bakery, frozen food. Um…you know, other types of stuff. [laughs] Other grocery types. Cereal, et cetera. Like, a soup aisle. Like, a soup aisle, you know? [laughs] Et cetera. Everybody else make their claims.
Sylvia: Oh, I forgot to paste the…
Ali: Oh, is this happening, by the way?
Sylvia: Oh, is it…
Janine: Hey, what was that about a vampire, Keith? [Ali laughs]
Keith: So, I hadn't added my question in, [Janine laughs] and the way that my statement was written doesn't necessarily answer the question, so I have to put the question in and then rephrase what I've written in order to be more answering the question.
Janine: Okay.
Ali: Okay, there’s some good things in chat here. Deli, obviously. I think deli— I mean, butcher is a different thing from a deli, but deli is important. Fresh foods.
Keith: Do you want to know an interesting thing that’s been happening to me for a year, since I got this new graphics card?
Ali: Uh huh.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Windows Explorer has been frequently crashing for me.
Ali: Oh.
Keith: And so I have to go into my processes and scroll down to the end where, like, Windows Explorer lives and restart Windows Explorer.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Janine: Ugh.
Keith: And I thought that maybe upgrading to Windows 11 would reinstall Windows and thus fix the issue for me. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: But actually it just sort of slightly changed which issues are happening. One of my new issues that happens when Windows Explorer crashes is that it, like, ruins my ability to copy and paste. Like, I can't copy and paste.
Sylvia: What?
Keith: Especially from a web browser. I don't know. It’s very weird.
Ali: Huh.
Keith: So I'm now, like…I don't know. It’s just very annoying. Anyway, if anyone’s ever heard of this and heard of the new 40 Series graphics cards making Windows Explorer crash and if there's a fix for that, let me know, 'cause I don't like it.
Ali: [laughs] You heard it here first. Keith does not like it.
Keith: I don't like it.
Ali: Okay. All right. Where’s my guy Adam? He’s late. Anywhere. So, we're answering these questions. I do encourage anybody to add the own departments that they want to see in our General Notes. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Oh, these are good already though.
Ali: I've listed as many as I can think of, and I'm gonna go back to answering my questions.
Sylvia: Do we want a pharmacy in this place? I know some…
Ali: Ooh.
Sylvia: Like, again, that’s getting close to, like…superstore territory, but.
Ali: Yeah, but a pharmacy isn't bad.
Sylvia: All right, I'll write that down.
Ali: We could also—
Janine: Like, most— maybe this is just, like, again, a thing of, like, where I live, but every grocery store I think I've been to in the past five years has a pharmacy.
Sylvia: Yeah, same.
Janine: Except for one.
Keith: Yeah, I agree. I mostly see places with pharmacies and banks. There’s a lot of, like, Citizen Banks in grocery stores around here.
Ali: Oh, yeah. Yeah, I don't know. That started becoming a thing. I was gonna say, another thing that we wanted— if we wanted to really broaden this out is, like, set the game in, like, a strip mall instead.
Sylvia: Oh.
Ali: So we would be at, like, the grocery store and then, like, pizza place next store, Meatballs, et cetera.
Keith: Yeah, that could help us be able to keep the grocery store, like, more grocery store.
Ali: Uh huh.
Keith: If we put it in a setting where there's other things to interact with.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Keith: So that we don't lose the grocery store.
Janine: I feel like that’s pretty common for a lot of grocery stores anyway.
Keith: I agree. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Janine: Is that they'll be attached to, like…
Keith: Like six other things.
Janine: You know, there’s, like, a Chinese food place and a check cashing place and a…
Keith: A liquor store and a Panera and…
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, it’s time.
Janine: Oh, it is time. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: It’s the…
Ali: It’s time. I'm putting my…
Keith: Oh, it’s time.
Janine: Now you can all type it in. [Ali laughs] There you go.
Sylvia: Yeah. Get at it. Ah, there you go.
Keith: [cross] I'm not looking, but I assume everyone’s doing great. Great job.
Janine: [cross] Two Divine Fleet tees is the thing.
Sylvia: Proud of you guys.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Good luck, everybody.
Keith: Yeah. We've never done— I've never done a giveaway here or for Run Button. It’s never been something that we've done.
Ali: Yeah. Well, thank you, Fourthwall, for…
Janine: I've wanted to do it for a while.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: I think it’s such a good idea.
Ali: Uh huh.
Janine: People deserve things.
Ali: Yeah. Oh, don't cry. [laughs] Okay.
Janine: Huh?
Ali: Somebody said that if they don't win, they're gonna cry.
Keith: Janine was sobbing, just no one else could see. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Janine: [passionately] People deserve things! [Ali and Keith laugh]
Ali: All right. While everyone’s distracted and having fun in chat, we're gonna dial in and answer these questions, huh?
Sylvia: Yeah. [Ali laughs] Trying to think of a good name for a terrible pizza place.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: I'm trying to think of a good name for a pig.
Ali: Whoa. [laughs quietly] Whoa.
Sylvia: What’s another shitty job? Where have I worked that I hated? [laughs quietly] 
Ali: Yeah, uh huh.
Keith: That’s my method.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Ali laughs] 
Keith: I don't need a name generator. I have a life full of people that I've met. I just name directly after the one that’s most like the thing that I've done.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: No thank you. Not for me. [Ali laughs]
Keith: No?
Janine: [laughs quietly] No.
Keith: You get in a fight with a kid named Brandon, so you say, “Oh, Brendon’s the person that I got in a fight with.” [Ali laughs]
Janine: Well, okay. To be fair, Brendon is, like, a universally, like, little jerk kid name, so.
Keith: Yeah. But that actually happened to me. That’s why he’s in this.
Ali: I apologize to all Brandons. [laughs] 
Janine: Yeah. I know some good Brandons. Not all— it’s not all Brandons.
Keith: The nice— the good thing about a Brendon and a Brandon is that the ones that aren't little shits are good sports, and so they get it, and they’ll be fine. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Ali: Whoa! Great. Okay. With that settled. [laughs] 
Sylvia: My worst job ever was Big Ned’s Drive-In Picture Show. That’s what I'm putting down.
Ali: Whoa!
Sylvia: We have a drive-in theater that sucks.
Janine: Hell yeah.
Ali: I thought that you meant that in real life! [Ali and Janine laugh]
Sylvia: No. I’ve only worked in a normal theater. No. I was like, how do I do this where I'm not just spinning things that I've done, or where it’s not just the thing I've done?
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: So I was like, okay, I added cars. [Ali laughs]
Keith: I think it’s good to just spin things you've done.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I think that’s great.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: That’s what most writing is.
Keith: That’s real. There’s no way to assure that something comes across as real than to have actually done it.
Sylvia: Damn, we got our winners.
Ali: Oh, damn. Shoutout to the winners. I'm gonna take down—
Keith: Finally, a shoutout to the winners! [Keith and Ali laugh]
Ali: Shut up!
Janine: Shoutout to the winners. They deserve things too.
Ali: Come on. Well, thanks for being here, everybody, and thank you to Adam. Shoutouts.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Talk to you via email soon. [laughs] Okay. I am opening my own name generator, and I am going to answer these questions for real. I have good ideas.
Janine: Ugh. I like—
Ali: Oh, I can generate some twin names. Go on, Janine. Sorry. [laughs] 
Janine: I didn't put the name that the generator gave me down for a really long time, 'cause I was like, “I don't know if I can live with this.”
Ali: Ooh.
Janine: And I sat with it. I'm like, you know? Yeah. Let’s go.
Ali: Okay. [laughs quietly] Okay.
Keith: Eddy Leggy? [Janine laughs] Eddy Leggy.
Ali: Oh, wow, there’s a new…
Janine: It’s Eddy Legge, thank you, but yes, Eddy Leggy.
Keith: Pretty sure that’s Eddy Leggy. [Keith and Ali laugh]
Janine: Uh huh. Yeah.
Keith: Pretty sure that everyone’s gonna read that as Eddy Leggy.
Janine: Yep. That’s why I needed to sit with it for a bit, and then I committed. That’s exactly the thing.
Keith: Eddy Legge, also known as Eddy Leggy, also known as Eggy Leggy.
Sylvia: Whuh…
Janine: It’s okay.
[pause]
Janine: Oh, that’s teeny tiny.
Ali: I had to mute myself, 'cause I was coughing.
Sylvia: Bless you.
Ali: I was coughing.
Keith: Eggy Leggy and their guitar teacher, Denise Venereal. 
Sylvia: Whoa.
Janine: Oh my god.
Ali: [laughing] What are you talking about?
Keith: Says it right there, plain as day.
Janine: Terrible. [Ali laughs]
Ali: Okay. Whoa, whoa, whoa. What happened?
Keith: Whoa.
Ali: The background of our Roll20 thing changed. I don't know why. [quietly] No, that’s a bad idea.
Keith: All right, I've gotta read everyone’s third question so that I don't steal.
[pause with typing]
Janine: Oh, Ali, that’s perfect. Thank you. [Ali laughs] I was looking ahead for my fourth question to answer, and mwah!
[pause with typing]
Sylvia: Keith, the rumor is great.
Keith: How high are we getting with the stakes on this?
Ali: Ooh. Um…
Janine: They're usually at about, like, knee level or, like, between knee and hip level. [Ali laughs quietly]
Keith: Oh, that’s huge. [Ali and Janine laugh] That’s gotta be, like, a 5 or $600 steak.
Janine: No, what? They're in a case.
Ali: Oh my god. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Keith: That’s right, everybody! You heard three different uses of the word stake in three sentences. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Sylvia: That’s what they get when they come to Friends at the Table, you know?
Keith: Yep.
Ali: Okay. Does everybody have their answers for each of their things? We still thinking?
Keith: I have a third one incoming.
Ali: Okay. All right, take your time. For some reason, my window capture of the game— oh, there we go. When I put it away, it goes away. [laughs] Um…I guess Keith is the last row, so do we want to read our answers?
Keith: Yeah, we can just go.
Sylvia: Yeah, sure.
Ali: And then, by the time we…we can do it by waiter rules. Okay, so, I'm gonna start, because I'm left.
Sylvia: Waiter rules? Is that how that’s…?
Ali: Well, because… [laughs] 
Sylvia: I just wanted to— sorry. I like it.
Ali: You know, when it’s like, “Oh, everybody else order, and by the time they're done, I'll know what I want.” [laughs] 
Sylvia: No, I immediately got you. I just, like, shout out.
Answers [0:51:25]
Ali: [laughs] Thank you. Okay. Who do you admire, even though they can't stand you? Mine is Thomas Jeany, who is supervisor for the floral department. Where are you afraid to go, even though you know it’s irrational? The walk-in freezer. And then, what are you sure nobody will miss if you take it? A die-cast model car next door in the accountant’s window.
Sylvia: Oh. My turn, yeah?
Ali: Mm-hmm. 
Sylvia: Okay. Whose name did you paint on a bridge? Lorraine “Rainey” Grimes. We were in marching band together in high school. Where was your worst job ever? Big Ned’s Drive-in Picture Show. I didn't even drive yet. And what has your neighbor been trying to sell for months with no offers? Joey Trevino has been trying to sell his shitty Honda Civic that he painted Goku on for over a year now. [Janine laughs]
Ali: Whoa!
Keith: No buyers?
Sylvia: No.
Ali: Shocking. What’s wrong with this town?
Sylvia: He didn't paint a great Goku. [Ali laughs]
Janine: They're just waiting for the price to come down. They're just playing him a little bit.
Ali: Uh huh.
Janine: Making him sweat. So, my questions are: Who do you meet secretly? My guitar instructor, Denise Villereal. 
Keith: [as if only now understanding her name is not Venereal] Ohh.
Sylvia: Come on. [Keith and Ali laugh]
Janine: Where have you stopped going that you used to go all the time? Meatballs. What gift does your ex refuse to take back? Former “teacup” pig Meatball, named after the bar. Where did a wild rumor you still kind of— this is my fourth question, so I'll just say it now. Where did a wild rumor you still kind of believe supposedly take place? I went with Ali’s walk-in freezer for this detail. 
Ali: Wow.
Janine: The last general manager was found dead in the walk-in freezer.
Keith: Wow!
Ali: Does that make— am I still irrational if that’s the case? [laughs] 
Janine: Well, it’s a wild rumor. It’s not a rational rumor.
Ali: Sure, okay. Okay.
Janine: It’s not a truth, you know?
Ali: Okay. [laughs] Fair. Okay, fair. Fair, fair, fair.
Keith: Well, at some point, you've got an obituary and a police report.
Janine: Which probably don't exist.
Keith: Okay.
Ali: Which don't exist?
Janine: This is one of those, like, rumors.
Ali: Okay, sure.
Janine: No, this is not— you know, play to find out what happens, [Ali laughs] but in my elementary school, there was a broom closet, and all of us decided that dead people were in there. 
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, that’s like a…yeah.
Janine: Because it was a small closet that we couldn't go in. [Ali laughs] Therefore, dead people inside of it.
Ali: Sure.
Janine: Did they have obituaries? No. [Ali laughs] Anyway.
Ali: Fair. Fair. Okay. Well, Janine has led by example here, and chosen the fourth question and used one of our answers as her answer, and now that gives the rest of us the opportunity to return to the questions list and choose one more.
Janine: But also, Keith, do you want to read your stuff?
Ali: Oh, please! [laughs] 
Keith: Yep.
Janine: Are your ready?
Keith: I got: Who still holds a grudge from that fight you had years ago? Brendon from kindergarten. He was stealing my best friend. What’s his problem? [Sylvia and Ali laugh] Where did a wild rumor you still kind of believe supposedly take place? Mrs. Cunningham, the old fifth grade teacher who works at the library now, was turned into a vampire by the weird gas station attendant while self serving gas at night.
Janine: Oh, that’s where the vampire was.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: What important thing did you lose the other day? A scratcher with a $1000 cash prize. 
Ali: [laughs] That’s tough. 
Keith: It’s tough.
Ali: I wouldn't want to lose that.
Keith: No.
Janine: Yeah, that is important.
Ali: Wow. Okay, I have no idea what my fourth question is going to be. Let me look at this list.
Sylvia: Oh, I think I have an idea that we can cross over into.
Keith: I also have an idea.
Sylvia: Mine’s from the People section.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: And I'm gonna just say what my answer to this is, because it’s faster than writing it out. I'm gonna do “Who knows something that could get you fired?” and it’s Thomas Jeany, the florist supervisor.
Ali: Ooh. 
Janine: Interesting.
Ali: Thomas Jeany. Zoom in on some of these.
Sylvia: Yeah, I typed too much.
Janine: Oh, JHarkins, that’s a good point. Self serve gas isn't legal in Jersey, right?
Ali: [gasps] It isn't.
Keith: Maybe it was retribution for trying to self serve gas. 
Ali: [laughing] What?
Janine: Illegal self serve.
Keith: [laughing] Illegal self serve.
Sylvia: Whoa.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: They make you put on a uniform shirt before you pump your gas and then hang it up when you leave.
Ali: What?
Keith: While being served.
[pause]
[Ali laughs quietly]
Keith: I have my last question.
Ali: Big Ned’s Drive-in Picture Show.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Ali laughs]
Keith: It’s just a…
Sylvia: It’s his passion, you know?
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: It’s like a…is it a movie theater, or is it just pictures?
Sylvia: It’s movies.
Keith: It’s like a…
Janine: I have the same question. [Keith laughs quietly]
Sylvia: It’s not just pictures. It’s like… [Ali laughs] It’s like, you know, you go down to the picture show, see what they got going.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: That’s his explanation of it.
Keith: I know that that’s what’s picture show means.
Janine: Plugs in his phone and does his iPhoto slideshow thing. 
Keith: Yeah, that's exactly— yeah, I was—
Sylvia: He’s done that before, but it’s not that often. [Janine laughs]
Keith: I know what that is, but I just wanted to make sure that, uh…that the picture show person knew that that’s what that was.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: All right, I've got my last question. I'm gonna read it out real quick.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: Before we go onto more questions. “Where are you afraid to go, even though you know it’s irrational?” Meat locker where the old manager died.
Ali: Wait, that’s literally mine. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Let’s go! [Keith laughs]
Ali: That's my question and my answer. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah, and yours was from your original three.
Keith: Oh, okay. So, I remembered Janine’s, but I forgot what it was based on. [Ali continues laughing]
Janine: Uh huh. 
Keith: But I added in the manager death to it.
Ali: I mean, I'll allow it, but that is what you did. [laughs] 
Keith: No, no, I know that’s what I did. I'm just saying I forgot. [Ali laughs] ‘Cause I was only thinking of Janine’s.
Ali: Sure. Okay. [laughs] 
Keith: I mean, it would be even weirder if it was, like, the same answer but a different question, so it’s not weird that it’s the same of both.
Ali: Okay, uh huh. Yeah, that makes it more normal, for sure. [laughs] 
Keith: It makes it more normal. Right, we had the same answer to a question.
Ali: Uh huh. I'm so torn, because I have two answers that I want to use, and I'm not sure which question I want to pair them with. [brief pause] Okay. [laughs quietly] I'm gonna go with “Who have you secretly helped when they needed it?” and it’s gonna be the vampire lady.
Sylvia: Hell yeah.
Ali: Miss Cunningham.
Janine: She’s not really a vampire though, right?
Sylvia: No, but people think she is.
Janine: Okay. Children. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: You know. [Janine laughs]
Ali: I mean, it says, “Miss Cunningham, the old fifth grade teacher who works at the library, now—”
Janine: Oh.
Ali: Wait. [laughs quietly] Who works at the library…
Janine: She works at the library now.
Ali: Now.
Janine: But she was the fifth grade teacher.
Ali: Now, was turned into a vampire by the weird gas station attendant.
Keith: I can…there we go. I'm gonna add two commas to that. [Ali and Janine laugh] There we go. We got two commas to fix that right there. 
Ali: Okay. [laughs] 
Keith: Mrs. Cunningham, the old fifth grade teacher, who works at the library now, [Ali: Okay.] was turned into a vampire by the weird gas station attendant while being served gas at night.
Ali: Okay.
Janine: Also, wait, there are vampires in Bluff City.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: I forgot. Vampires do exist here, actually, [Ali laughs] so maybe she’s a vampire.
Sylvia: She might be!
Ali: She might be.
Sylvia: Listen, we don't tend to have normal librarians in Bluff City. 
Ali: [laughs] That’s true. All right. I'm gonna put this here, and I'm not gonna have Roll20 move it. Great. Thank you, Roll20. Um…text 18.
Sylvia: I have a fourth question.
Ali: Oh, sure, yeah.
Sylvia: Who knows something that could get you fired? Thomas Jeany caught me stealing stuff from the library after work one night.
Ali: Wow.
Sylvia: Maybe I should put “saw” instead of “caught”, but you know, they both work. Also, does anybody know what departments of the store they want to work in? 'Cause I have an idea.
Ali: Oh, please.
Sylvia: I think I want to work in the bakery.
Ali: Wow. Okay, sure. Here for that a.m. shift.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Oh, I know. [Ali laughs] I just remembered a thing exists. You know when you remember a thing exists?
Ali: I sure do. That feeling when.
Sylvia: Yeah, this grocery does have a florist, because Thomas Jeany is the florist supervisor, [Ali: Uh huh.] and he saw me stealing stuff after work. Just a couple books. It’s, like, fine. Nobody even checks them out.
Ali: Yeah. Hey, everybody, steal money from the place that you work at. That’s my recommendation.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Just saying.
Janine: Um… [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: When I worked at, uh, an unnamed cinema chain, I got so much free candy, and they didn't even know it.
Ali: Uh huh.
Keith: Oh, definitely steal products.
Janine: We don't endorse stealing, but we…you know, we…
Sylvia: We don't endorse stealing, but I am just talking about my lived experience.
Ali: Uh huh. [laughs] 
Keith: What do you mean?
Janine: Be autonomous and make the choices that you feel are right for you [Sylvia: Uh huh.] independent of anything we will ever say.
Ali: Uh huh. Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Exactly.
Keith: If you want a show to stand up and actively encourage stealing, go to youtube.com/runbutton. 
Ali: [laughs] I'm just saying, you know, sometimes you count money and you have access to it. Um…I’m gonna move this a little bit so it looks better. Okay, are we onto the…?
Keith: Is the old manager named, or is it— is he unnamed?
Sylvia: I kinda like— I don't know. You guys can answer this, 'cause it’s your questions, but the idea of it just being “the old manager” [Ali chuckles] and, like, it changing which old manager it is is really good.
Janine: Yeah, I think that’s the…yeah. And they weren't named, because the answer was the freezer.
Keith: Right.
Janine: So the thing I was referencing was the freezer.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Yeah, it wasn't, like, a person question.
Ali: Yeah, it was a location question.
Keith: My new fourth question: What would solve a big problem if you had it? Police report from the night the old manager died. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Okay.
Janine: Does that really reference— what’s that referencing, though?
Keith: That’s referencing your question about the general manager.
Janine: But—
Sylvia: But what big problem would it solve?
Janine: You need to be referencing either—
Keith: Why is someone killing the old manager? [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Not killing! No one said killing.
Janine: You need to—
Keith: My character believes that my old fifth grade teacher is a vampire. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Okay.
Janine: But your fourth question has to reference a person, place, or thing that has been created elsewhere.
Keith: Yeah, the old manager.
Janine: So, this would reference…that isn't a character that’s been created. [laughs quietly] I'm sorry. [Ali laughs]
Keith: I fail to see how that is an— I fail to see how you referencing the last general manager who was found dead is not creating a character.
Janine: ‘Cause that’s— 'cause it was a thing. It was a…
Ali: It’s a place question, right?
Janine: Place question. So, the thing that exists here— this is really getting nitpicky. [Ali laughs]
Keith: I think that that’s crazy to say that you can't create a character in a question about a place.
Janine: No, I mean you—
Keith: Because I created Miss Cunningham in a question about a place.
Ali: Wait, did you?
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: That’s true. 
Ali: [laughs] Okay.
Keith: Because the answers are— [cross] these are all true information.
Janine: [cross] Right, yeah. “Where did a wild rumor you still kind of believe supposedly take place?” Yeah, so that’s— the answer to that is where, and that’s the gas station, but you— the thing is, like, you named her, and you didn't name the gas station. You gotta name the gas station.
Keith: Well, but you just call the gas station “the gas station”. You don't say, like, “the Shell.”
Janine: I guess, sure. [Ali laughs]
Keith: I think it’s more descriptive of how people talk to not name it.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: I can't believe you're turning down the opportunity to name a Bluff City gas chain.
Ali: Wow.
Keith: I mean, I will name it. [Ali laughs] It will— okay, so, there’s a place down the street from me that it just has a big sign that looks sort of like how a Citgo sign would be, but it just says “Serving Gas.” [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Ooh.
Keith: And I also don't think it serves gas, because it looks closed.
Janine: Huh.
Keith: I've never seen anybody getting gas there.
Sylvia: It’s giving gas. [Ali snorts]
Janine: Mm.
Keith: So that’s where a vampire would work. A vampire would work at a gas station that says “serving gas” but doesn't have a name.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Mm.
Keith: And also I've never seen it working.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I've never seen anyone serving gas there. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Interesting.
Sylvia: Man.
Janine: So, the other thing is also I don't think fourth questions are allowed to reference other fourth questions?
Ali: Oh.
Keith: Oh.
Janine: There’s not a specific rule against it, but I think in the structure of the— I did jump the gun, and if I hadn't jumped the gun, that wouldn't have been available information.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: That— well, it would have been if we had—
Janine: No.
Keith: ‘Cause I would come after you, so I would have it when answering my last question.
Janine: You would have— no. [Ali laughs quietly]
Keith: I can see how it would be unlikely that I would…
Sylvia: [sighs] What a good semantics thing. 
Janine: ‘Cause if you— without my answer, you wouldn't have known that the old manager maybe potentially died in the freezer. It would just be the freezer.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: Unless I was answering my fourth question after you were reading your fourth question, which is what happened. [Ali laughs quietly]
Janine: Yeah, I…
Sylvia: Then who’s flying the plane?
Ali: Yeah. [Janine laughs quietly] Janine, are you attempting to put up, like, a veil over this dead manager to… [laughs] 
Janine: No—
Sylvia: Yeah, that I think is a better question.
Janine: So, the actual thing I'm worried about here is that, you know, the purpose of the fourth question is to interconnect things.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Sure.
Janine: And if we have two fourth questions that are interconnecting the same point, you're losing some richness.
Sylvia: That is a good point.
Janine: Some, like, potential…
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: You know, threads.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Also, we're increasingly making my irrational fear [laughs] more rational.
Keith: Well, so, the thing I was trying to do was connect my irrational fear to your irrational fear using Janine’s answer.
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Oh, you were going for a triple. 
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: [laughs] Okay. Okay.
Janine: Wait, what’s your irrational fear?
Keith: That my old fifth grade teacher, Mrs. Cunningham, who works at the library now, is a vampire. [Ali laughs quietly]
Janine: How does that connect?
Keith: And that the originating vampire is at the gas station that’s, you know, next door.
Janine: But how does that connect with the freezer?
Keith: Mysterious deaths in and around the parking lot? [Ali laughs]
Janine: She didn't die, though! She’s alive, right?
Ali: [laughing] You're so reaching.
Keith: You gotta get a look at her. Get a look at her, next time you're at the library. 
Janine: Huh?
Ali: [continues laughing] Okay.
Janine: [chuckles] Oh boy.
Keith: Do I have to say mysterious death instead of mysterious deaths? Is that how to phrase it without getting a cackle? 
Ali: [laughs] I just…
Janine: [laughing quietly] You're the one who said it connects them. I was like, “how?” 
Keith: There’s a vampire.
Ali: Uh huh.
Keith: And a death.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: [laughs quietly] By freezer! [Ali laughs]
Keith: It didn't say that he died by freezing in the freezer, just found dead in the freezer.
Janine: Okay. [laughs] 
Ali: [laughs quietly] It seems we're at a standstill.
Keith: I'm— every— I'm not the one being weird about this. [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: Mm? [Ali laughs] This is great.
Janine: I just feel like these are cover stories at this point. These are— “No, I intended for this all the while.” [Ali laughs]
Keith: No, this is what I intended!
Janine: All the while, uh huh.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Okay.
Ali: I'm gonna write down my character name. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Yeah. [Ali laughs] Yeah, we did start talking about how there weren't going to be deaths in this, and now… [Ali sputters]
Keith: Well, we all immediately disagreed with that.
Janine: I said that there could be funny deaths.
Sylvia: That’s true.
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvia: That’s true.
Janine: You know, I stand by it.
Sylvia: You know what?
Janine: Also, it’s not a— my intention was not for it to be a real death. My intention was: “Ha ha, Ali’s character is afraid of the freezer? I'm gonna make up some bullshit about why someone might be afraid of the freezer.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: That’s— I don't think the general manager was found dead in there. I don't…
Sylvia: We were trying to make a haunted freezer, and now it’s a conspiracy.
Janine: Vampire conspiracy.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Worst kind.
Ali: As it goes.
Sylvia: Or the best kind, depending.
Ali: We're all in this together. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: That’s not how it feels to me.
Janine: Okay. All right. [Ali laughs]
Ali: Again, with—
Janine: Keith, are you playing yourself?
Ali: You know, with, uh…
Keith: I'm always playing myself. 
Janine: Okay.
Ali: I literally, like, while you guys were arguing, I was like, “Oh, I'm gonna name my character Keith Franke,” and then I was like, “Wait a minute, I can't do that.” [Keith and Ali laugh]
Keith: You can name me your character. I've been thinking about naming a character after one of the other players for months. I just haven't been in a Bluff game.
Ali: Oh, okay, yeah. Uh huh.
Janine: I will say—
Sylvia: Not content with naming a character after yourself, you were like… [Ali laughs]
Keith: It just is the logical next step.
Sylvia: “Well, I'm gonna say Austin Walker sometime.” [Ali and Janine laugh]
Ali: Okay.
Janine: Lightly controversial last name choice. I will flag that, Ali.
Ali: Franke?
Keith: Oh, sorry. I now understand the question “Are you playing yourself?” because my name is written as Keith. No, I'm just still thinking of a first and last name.
Janine: Okay, okay.
Ali: Is Franke a bad word?
Janine: Y— s— mm… [Ali laughs] So, in the past— so, there was this mommy blogger, right? Mommy vlogger?
Ali: Huh? [laughs] 
Sylvia: Uh?
Janine: And she was really Christian.
Sylvia: Oh no.
Janine: And she, like, vlogged her family a lot, and she just got sentenced, like, last week.
Ali: Oh.
Janine: Because she gave her children to this, like, religious, quote unquote, “therapist” who, like, chained them up and wouldn't feed them. Sorry, I should have content warninged that, [Sylvia: Oh.] in a big way.
Sylvia: God damn!
Ali: [quiet horrified laugh] Okay.
Janine: Her name is Ruby Franke[pronounced Frankie, where Ali’s was pronounced Frank], but it’s spelled like that.
Ali: Okay. [laughs] 
Janine: So, you know, I, um…
Ali: Sure. You're having a connotation here.
Janine: I don't know. I'm just flagging that in case that affects what you want to name your character. I don't think it’s a problem, but I just want— I want you to know, just in case it comes up.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Sure.
Janine: In the chat or something. I don't know.
Ali: Uh huh. Uh huh. Well, now everybody’s aware. [laughs] I did not know that, and I was not thinking that.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: I still think that Frank with an E at the end, like it’s old time shoppe-y, is funny to me. [laughter] 
Sylvia: Yeah, I agree.
Janine: Uh huh.
Ali: So, I think I'm just gonna keep it, [laughing] and I'm just gonna go for a different vibe with my character.
Keith: I mean, we’d love you to go…
Janine: I'm shocked by how many people didn't know this.
Sylvia: Yeah, I had no idea.
Keith: Sorry, what was that person’s name?
Janine: This— Ruby Franke, and like, [Keith: Oh.] I forget what the therapist lady’s name is, but she’s like a…problem.
Sylvia: No shit!
Janine: But she just got sentenced last week. I thought it was, like, a thing that everyone knew. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: There’s been a lot going on in the world.
Ali: Uh huh, yeah.
Janine: True. Yeah, true. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: God damn.
Janine: I hope those kids are doing better. I wish them the best. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Don't actually know what the mom’s sentence was, but I hope she’s in jail.
Ali: Sure. Yeah. Uh huh.
Keith: Yeah, I've never heard of that. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Janine: Anyway.
Ali: Yeah. Does anybody else want to introduce their characters?
Sylvia: Um…yeah, I don't know if my character’s got any name in common with, like, someone who’s done something horrible. [Ali laughs]
Keith: I should google my name real quick. 
Sylvia: My character’s Jennifer Gibson. People call her Jenny. She doesn't love that.
Keith: Doesn't love it.
Sylvia: No. It’s, like, fine, but…she’s not gonna say anything, but it’s, like, not preferred.
Janine: William— no, okay. I'm not— that’s fine. [Ali laughs] I googled “murderers named Gibson.” 
Ali: Ooh. [Keith laughs]
Janine: And then I found one, and I was like, “You know, I actually want to back off of this. I don't want it to be dark.” [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: I thought you were gonna talk fucking science fiction writers.
Janine: No, I just…we’re…yeah, um…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: It’s fine.
Ali: Mm-hmm. [laughs] I love the person in chat who says, “There’s gotta be a criminal who’s had, like, every name.” 
Keith: [laughs] Yeah, there’s been a lot of murderers in the universe. [Ali laughs]
Janine: I was looking for fresh cases.
Ali: Sure. Sure. [laughs] 
Sylvia: There’s gotta be one criminal.
Keith: If you're looking for fresh cases, head over to the bakery. [Janine, Ali, and Sylvia laugh]
Ali: Janine, what’s your character’s name?
Janine: Eddy Legge.
Ali: Okay.
Sylvia: We've got a lot of superfluous E’s. [Ali laughs]
Janine: It’s old timey and shoppey.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Oh, you had alr— okay, yeah. You had already done that.
Janine: And Eddy Legge works at the lottery counter.
Ali: Okay.
Sylvia: Good name, Keith! [Ali chuckles]
Keith: My character’s name is Nathaniel Munth. He works in produce and heavy boxes department.
Ali: Okay. I guess I didn't say. I'm a PM keyholder. I think it’s basically like being a cashier, but I can, like, also go to the safe and, like, unlock the baby formula. Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, they give you extra responsibility without a raise. Yeah.
Ali: Uh huh, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah. [Janine and Ali laugh]
Keith: When I worked at GameStop and I was a keyholder, you got an extra $1.50.
Ali: Whoa.
Sylvia: Oh, wow. Living large. 
Keith: Yep.
Ali: Whoa. Okay. Are we ready to move onto the Plots section?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Mm.
“Plots” [1:15:45]
Ali: Okay. I will read from the book, which is on the screen again. Okay. “Plots are problems that the characters will be trying to solve. They're here to give you something to do when you start playing. They’re divided into A and B Plots. A Plots will usually take more time and effort to resolve, and they have two person blanks. If you pick an A Plot, ask another player to fill one of those blanks with their PC. If nobody takes you up on it, use a secondary character, but pick one that was created by another player. Fill in the remaining blanks from the People, Places, and Things lists that you just created. It’s fine for more than one player to use the same answer; that gives the PCs reasons to interact. During the game, you may run out of things to do with your Plot, because it’s been resolved or because you're stuck. If this happens, just take another from the list or write down your own. Take a token when you make a new Plot.” A thing that I didn't realize when I was setting up this game is that we each have our own Plots. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah. [Janine laughs] 
Ali: So it’s not just an A Plot and a B Plot. So, shoutouts to me for that and for how I've organized this thing, but now we've all learned this together. I'm gonna read through the A Plots, and then you're just all gonna have to rush to jump in to see who’s gonna start reading B, okay?
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Ali: “Person One is marrying Person Two at Place, and they asked you to use your online Ordained Minister certificate to officiate. You think they're making a big mistake.” “Person One owes you money but payed you with Thing instead. Turns out it’s stolen property and it belongs to Person Two.” “You and your old friend, Person One, were very into witchcraft as kids.” [laughs] 
Sylvia: I love it.
Keith: Mm. [Janine laughs]
Ali: “And now they claim they've learned real magic. They want you to join a ritual at Place and bring something that belongs to Person Two.” We— [laughs] I know everybody…
Keith: We can't not do that.
Sylvia: I mean, like…
Keith: I'm sorry, but we just spent a half hour on the vampire thing.
Ali: I know. [Ali and Sylvia laugh]
Keith: And the death, the freezer.
Ali: We just can't all pick it. “Person One is back in town staying with Person Two after a disastrous attempt to make it elsewhere. This is great for you; life is more fun when they're around. But they're already planning to leave again. You're meeting them at Place. Can you convince them to stay?” “Place, where you spend a lot of your time, is about to be sold and the land turned into a quarry. You have a plan to prevent that. You just need to get Thing from Person One.” Oh, thing is capitalized there? I think it meant to be…
Sylvia: A fill-in?
Ali: Yeah. And you get past— [clears throat] “You just need to get Thing from Person One and get past Person Two, who’s supposed to keep troublemakers from disrupting the sale.”
Sylvia: Okay, I'm doing B Plots. I jumped in first.
Ali: Wow.
Sylvia: “Last night at Place, you had a big argument with Person One. You don't even remember what it was about, but now Person Two is mad at you too.” “You're supposed to deliver Thing to someone, but the paper got wet, and you can only read part of the address. Is it Place One or Place Two?” “You're sure Person stole Thing from you, and you need to get it back. They probably hid it at Place.” “Person, who has a shitty job at Place, needs your help to pass an exam and get a better job in the city. If they do, you'll probably never see them again.” “A big friendly dog appeared at Place and won't stop following you, and you're already late to meet up with Person, who’s afraid of dogs.” “It’s time for the annual festival at Place. You and your rival, Person, always enter the same contest. They won last year. Can you take back your title and win the prize, Thing?” “The rec league you coach for has been invited to send an all-star team to the state capital, but your star player, Person One, and your good friend, Person Two, who plays the same position on another team, accuse each other of cheating.” “You and Person One are determined to capture a legendary cryptid! [Ali laughs] It was last seen near Place. You need Thing to lure and trap it. You need to keep anyone from scaring it off or finding your trap first.” “You did something terrible to Person once, and you've never apologized. You successfully avoided them for years, but they just became your new boss, and you keep running into them at Place.” “Person One gave you a thoughtful gift, Thing, but Person Two insists it’s cursed, and you have had some bad luck lately. But Person One wouldn't do that to you, would they?”
Ali: Incredible.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: We have a lot to work with here.
Keith: Mm-hmm. Hey, what was the thing that we all learned together just now, when we read the Plot thing that we didn't know?
Ali: Oh, that everybody has an A and B Plot. It’s not, like…
Keith: We all do. Okay.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Got it. Got it.
Ali: It’s not, like…I thought it was just as game we did it.
Keith: Sure.
Ali: So I guess we can— eh, I don't know how to use these boxes now. I guess we can all just write in them.
Sylvia: Yeah…
Ali: Even though maybe this B Plot box is gonna have to be bigger than it is.
Sylvia: Okay. God damn. These are good.
Keith: We can write our Plots in the journal space.
Sylvia: That’s what I was thinking we might need to do and then just share the General Notes section or something?
Ali: Oh, sure, yeah. I could also make the General Notes…Roll20! Okay.
Keith: And then in the designated Plot spaces, we can do, like, a summarize, like, Person One, Person Two, Place, and, like, Ordained Minister.
Sylvia: Yeah, well, I mean, like…
Keith: Yeah. So that we have space to just write everything.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Sure. Sure, sure, sure. Okay, yeah. Well, does anybody have any Plots that are jumping out to them?
Keith: Nothing. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Nothing?
Keith: I mean, I would love to do magic.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I also have the, uh…the scratcher one. That could be the, uh…
Sylvia: Can I make— can I— okay.
Ali: Please.
Sylvia: I know that it’s very, uh, “Oh, yeah, of course Sylvi’s going for the witchcraft one.”
Ali: Wow.
Sylvia: But however, I think it would be really funny for— and I don't know. Keith, would you be interested in being the other person in that?
Keith: Yes.
Sylvia: And then the ritual we want to do is on the vampire lady?
Keith: Yeah. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Cool. Immediately jumped out to me.
Keith: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Okay, so, you’re the one who’s claimed to have learned real magic. Is that cool with you?
Keith: Yes.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: [modulated] Oh, yeah, I have learned real magic.
Sylvia: Clearly! [Ali laughs] The demons are flowing through you. All right, cool.
Ali: What has your neighbor been trying to sell for months with no offers? Okay.
Keith: If someone wants to be owed money, I do have— I have that ticket that disappeared.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: That’s an A Plot.
Sylvia: Where…would the gas station be the location for the A Plot, maybe?
Keith: Uh…
Sylvia: The one between you and me, Keith?
Keith: Yeah. [cross] Or the library.
Sylvia: [cross] I guess we could also do the ritual at Meatballs, if you really want. [Ali laughs] Oh, the library is good. Um…do you have a name for— Miss Cunningham. I like this because it also just immediately establishes that Keith and I went to school together. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: [cross] It’s funny that it’s only—
Sylvia: [cross] Do you go by Nathan at all, or is it all Nathaniel?
Keith: Sorry, say again?
Sylvia: You go by Nathan at all, or is it all Nathaniel?
Keith: Uh, yeah, Nathan’s fine.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: Nathan, Nate, Nathaniel.
Sylvia: Oh, I'm calling you Nate. [Ali snort laughs]
Keith: Yeah, that works.
Sylvia: You're a Nate to me now.
Keith: Nate Munth. It’s funny there’s only five A Plots.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Mm…
Ali: I keep trying to find the appropriate thing to put this car into, and I think it might be…okay.
Sylvia: Which car? The model car or the Goku car?
Ali: The Goku car.
Sylvia: Okay, good. Just wanted to make sure. [Ali laughs] Wait, we settled on the library or the gas station? I completely spaced. For the ritual.
Keith: Uh, library, I think.
Sylvia: Okay. Also, what’s the store called?
Ali: That’s a great question that I don't have the answer to.
Keith: Mosters Grossters.
Sylvia: Mosters Grossters?
Ali: Excuse me?
Janine: Ew, what?
Keith: Grossteries. 
Janine: What the fuck? [all laugh] 
Ali: [sighs] God.
Janine: The second word has to at least be a word. Please. [Ali and Sylvia laugh]
Ali: Wait, what did I just do? What just happened there?
Janine: Also, sorry, I think we're supposed to pick an A Plot or a B Plot each, because it says, “If you pick an A Plot,” not when you pick one.
Sylvia: Ohh.
Ali: Ohh!
Janine: So I think that’s why…
Keith: Oh, that makes it make a lot more sense that there’s only five.
Ali: Okay.
Sylvia: Okay, well.
Janine: Yeah. Yeah.
Ali: Okay.
Janine: I kind of want a B Plot instead of an A Plot, to be honest with you.
Sylvia: Are we still down for witchcraft, though?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Cool.
Keith: As long as you're fine being an A Plot.
Sylvia: At this point.
Janine: Witchcraft tonight, queen?
Sylvia: I mean, would you prefer it, Keith? 'Cause it could go either way.
Keith: Yeah, yeah. No, I think that’s great. I love that. I'm into it.
Ali: Okay.
Sylvia: Oh, I was asking if you would prefer it as your A Plot.
Keith: Oh. No, no, no, no. That’s fine.
Sylvia: Okay, cool.
Ali: Which plots have been taken at this point?
Sylvia: I think it’s just the one.
Keith: The only A Plot is the witchcraft A Plot.
Ali: Okay. Oh, you and your friend— okay, okay, okay, okay. Yeah, okay. So, back when I… [laughs quietly] back when I thought I was picking both. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: I was thinking the “Person One owes you money but payed you with the scratch off card,” but I also really wanted to do “You're supposed to deliver Goku car to somebody, but the paper got wet, and you can only read part of the address. Is it Place One or Place Two?”
Sylvia: Oh, that’s really good.
Ali: So. I think I'm gonna take the— Janine, you said you wanted a B Plot, right? Was that the one that you were thinking of?
Janine: No, I'm doing “You did something terrible [Ali gasps] to Person once, and you've never apologized. You successfully avoided them for years, but they just became your new boss, and you keep running into them at Place.”
Ali: Whoa. Okay.
Janine: So, I did something terrible to you. 
Ali: [laughs] To me?
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Whoa. Keith, do you know what you're thinking of?
Keith: I'm close.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: Let me…I just need to reread the Plot thing real quick. 
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: What was the special note about a B Plot?
Sylvia: Uh…
Keith: Oh, there was— oh, it was just the A Plot, if you take an A Plot. Okay.
Janine: Yeah, if you do A Plot, you have to get other people to suggest things for you.
Keith: Okay. Got it.
Janine: If you do B Plot, you just do it.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: I am going to offer. Does someone want to have stolen my scratch ticket?
Sylvia: I think that would be so fucked up for me, if we're doing a ritual together and I'm stealing from you. [Ali laughs] Also because we already have a link.
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvia: So yeah, I'm gonna sit this one out.
Ali: Okay, Keith. Well…
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Okay, this is tough, because…no, okay. This is gonna be a tradesies situation.
Keith: Okay. [Sylvia laughs]
Ali: Do you want to make a bargain with me? [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Sure. I mean, I would love to hear what my side of the bargain is.
Ali: [laughs] So long as you promise to have your plot involve a Thing, which is the Goku car, I will [laughs] either…well, no, it would have been stolen from you, so it would have been— 
Keith: Right.
Ali: I would have involved the scratch ticket into my plot, owes you money but paid you with Thing. It turns out it’s stolen property and belongs to Keith, to Nathaniel.
Keith: Yeah. The way that you could do it instead is that you owe, um…no. I can pick A Plot, and I can say that you owe me money, because I found out that you stole my scratch ticket [Ali laughs] and you paid me with the Goku car Thing.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Keith: But it turns out that Goku car belongs to Person Two. Because someone finally bought the Goku car, or didn't, and it’s the side character.
Sylvia: DanaCallistaLexa in the chat says, “I hope Goku defeats the evil Freezer.” [Ali laughs]
Janine: Boo.
Ali: Because “Person One owes you money but they paid you with the scratch off ticket, and it belongs to Nathaniel” makes sense. I just have to pick Person One.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Ali: And then the Goku car is still in the weeds, I guess, is the only thing there. Which, you know, which is what you do.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm. It’s true. You got me there. [Ali laughs] No rebuttal.
Ali: I'm just saying, if I fulfill your need to have the scratch off ticket involved, [Keith: Yeah.] you can fulfill my need to see the Goku thing in one of these Plots. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Right. I think that the A Plot can cover both. If you're trying to pay me with the Goku car because you owe me money…or maybe it can also be— in what way do you want the Goku car involved? Or you just don't care?
Sylvia: Just any.
Ali: I just want, in one of these thing prompts, I would like the Goku car to be there.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: But I agree that this A Plot “but paid you with a scratch off ticket, it’s stolen property who belongs to you,” makes the most sense for that one.
Keith: Oh, so my pitch was that actually it’s flipped and I'm Person One that you owe money to because of the scratch off, so the thing isn't the scratch off. The thing is actually the Goku car, and the scratch off is just a detail.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: And then the Goku car is stolen property?
Keith: No, no. You’ve bought— you've gotten the car somehow to give to me.
Ali: Uh huh.
Keith: Oh, I guess, yeah, it would be, yeah. Turns out it’s stolen property.
Ali: Right. Which is— yeah.
Keith: So I guess, in this scenario, you would have stolen the scratch off ticket and then stolen the car to pay for the scratch off ticket. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Ali: Yeah. See, this is falling apart. 
Keith: It does make you seem like a pretty bad and chronic thief.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Mm.
Keith: That’s fine. Yeah, we can just— we can simplify it. I don't need the scratch off thing involved.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: We can do Goku car instead. What was the original thing? Oh, no, we can just do your thing. Person One— yeah, I'm— where— I don't know. I lost track of…
Ali: Well, okay. So, again— [laughs] What I was proposing is that I would take the A Plot [Keith: Yeah.] “A different NPC owes me money but paid me with the scratch off. It belongs to Nathaniel,” and then you would do, like, for instance, “You're supposed to deliver the Goku car to someone, but the paper got wet, and you can only read part of the address.” Or…
Keith: Oh, okay. Where is that one?
Ali: That’s one of the B Plots. But then, I mean—
Keith: Oh, there it is. You're supposed to deliver the Goku car to someone, but the paper got wet, and you can only read part of the address. Is it Place One, uh…
Ali: But if you had a different plot in mind for yourself, then we don't have to do this sort of gentlemen’s exchange.
Keith: No, no. No, no, that’s fine. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Classic gentlemen’s exchange. [Ali laughs]
Keith: We just need to figure out where the two places in that plot are, and then…
Ali: Mm-hmm. And then who the person who owes me money is.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Okay. I'm gonna copy and paste. What the fuck is happening in Roll20? It’s just bad all the time.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Oh, you know why Roll20 sucks ass?
Janine: Mm-hmm?
Ali: Is because I'm not gonna— oh, whoa, whoa, that’s why. I'm not gonna be able to, like, I can't have one text box with two different types of text in it, and that’s gonna kill me.
Janine: Yeah, it’s true.
Keith: It’s a rare disease, but it is deadly. [Ali laughs]
Ali: I'm gonna try to make it happen on my own.
Sylvia: That’s good.
[pause]
Janine: Can I not drag images here? That’s a shame.
Ali: You can, like, upload them as an asset and then drag them—
Janine: No, I don't think— no, no, no, I mean I can't as a— like, I'm trying to use one of the built-in assets, and I can't.
Ali: Oh, then that’s foolish.
Janine: Because I'm a player, I think.
Ali: Oh.
Janine: I was trying to bring a logo in for us, but it’s fine.
Ali: Wait. Come on. There. Oh, look at this. Now this is gaming. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: [typing] Ned’s Drive-in Picture Show or Meatballs. What’s Meatballs, again?
Janine: It’s an Italian restaurant turned bar, like dive bar kind of thing.
Keith: Okay.
Janine: I know it does sound like a really bad, uh, male exotic dance thing.
Sylvia: Yeah, I was gonna say.
Janine: But.
Keith: It does. Yeah.
Ali: [laughs] We set up a very believable lore, which is that it was an Italian restaurant that people only liked to drink at.
Keith: And so they turned it into a bar, because it was basically already a bar?
Janine: The bar was always full, and the tables were always empty, so.
Sylvia: Make the bar bigger.
Keith: Bar was always full and the tables were always empty.
Janine: Yeah, yeah.
Ali: We've all been there. Oh, yes, okay. Fix this one too.
Janine: DeusExBrockina points out, “It can still become a strip club.” There’s a— I feel like I've referenced this before or Austin has. There is, like, a…I think they're, like, a chain, like a small chain of strip clubs in Canada called Beef Baron.
Ali: Whoa.
Sylvia: What?
Janine: Or maybe it’s just the one. I think there's at least a couple of them, and I feel like my dad told me once about, like…
Sylvia: Beef Baron?
Janine: Going to one in, like, Montreal or something but might have been mistaken. And they apparently have, like, good beef? [Ali laughs] And also dancers.
Sylvia: You know, it’s in the name. You’d hope as much.
Janine: Yeah. [Ali laughs] Yep, they do, like, a solid cheap lunch, or they used to.
Keith: That’s something that I've heard a lot about strip clubs.
Sylvia: There was a very famous incident that happened during the lockdown when they were doing the NBA bubble, where a player left to go to a strip club and claimed it was just 'cause he wanted the wings. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: And that’s what I'm thinking right now.
Janine: You know?
Ali: Sure.
Keith: It’s a very funny excuse, because it’s like, it doesn't matter how good the food is. You can't say that you went there just for the food. You just can't say it.
Janine: No.
Keith: It doesn't work as an excuse.
Sylvia: Yeah, no one’s ever gonna believe it.
Keith: It’s got the only good wings in—! There’s no such thing as a good non-strip-club chicken wing.
Janine: I mean, I think the real thing is that, like, it’s cheap.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Like, the food is cheap.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Because they want to get you in there.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: But: NBA player.
Janine: So, I would— well, yeah, okay. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. [Ali laughs]
Janine: For a general person, I would 100% accept “I went to the strip club for a big lunch.”
Keith: Sure.
Ali: Oh—
Janine: Beef Baron was a place with female dancers, I think.
Ali: Okay.
Janine: To be clear.
Ali: Sure.
Sylvia: Oh, okay.
Janine: And it might have also just been a single location. I thought they had, like, a couple, at least, but yeah. I don't know if they're still open or not.
Ali: Okay, I put in Denise as the person who owes me money, but I realize that this is an A Plot, and we might prefer a player character here.
Sylvia: Mm.
Ali: But Jennifer’s already friends with Nathaniel, so I don't know…maybe you're stealing scratch cards behind his back.
Sylvia: Hmm…I’m thinking about it. It’d be a real shitty move. [Ali laughs]
Keith: It would be really shitty. I mean, maybe— well, I came to you with the magic thing, so like, we could have reconnected after you've already started stealing my stuff. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: And I'm like, “Hey, we should be friends again and do magic,” and you're like, “Uh…”
Sylvia: I just enjoyed the idea of us being homies, you know?
Keith: Yeah. That’s fine. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We can stay homies.
Ali: I can keep it as Denise. I was gonna ask Eddy here, but Eddy already did something bad to me, so…
Sylvia: I mean…
Ali: Also giving me stolen property, I don't know. [laughs] 
Janine: No.
Ali: Okay. Okay. So, I'm gonna keep it as Denise.
Janine: I'm a lot of things. Eddy’s a lot of things. Eddy’s probably not a thief.
Ali: Okay. So, it’s your guitar instructor instead who is evil.
Janine: [laughs quietly] Evil? [Ali laughs]
Keith: Well, we— in this town, we don't know.
Sylvia: Sort of a dirtbag though.
Janine: It could be a misunderstanding.
Ali: Yeah, maybe they found it on the floor.
Janine: I work at the lottery counter. Exactly.
Ali: Sure.
Janine: Found it on the floor and been like, “Oh, I owe her money.”
Ali: I'm gonna pay with my guitar lessons with this scratch off that they're gonna give back to me and…
Janine: Yeah. There’s plausible deniability here.
Sylvia: Oh.
Ali: Oh.
Janine: I work at the lottery counter.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Maybe you just didn't hold onto it tight enough or whatever.
Ali: Oh.
Keith: Maybe I just didn't hold onto it tight enough.
“Reputation” [1:39:42]
Ali: Reputation. “Now that you know more about your character’s background relationships, consider what their friends, neighbors, and rivals think of them. You start off with four traits on two axes: Jock versus Nerd and Prep versus Goth.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: “Choose a point on the Jock/Nerd/Prep/Goth graph. Remember, this is your reputation, not your reality. It’s at least a bit wrong. Numbers can change, and there’s a way to create a fifth trait during the game, so don't worry too much about getting it right. Your reputation traits are positive for your quadrant on the chart and negative in other quadrants. Zero is neutral. Your Jock and Nerd traits should add up to zero, and so should your Prep and Goth traits. For example, if you have +2 Jock and +1 Goth, you have to have -2 Nerd and -1 Prep.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Got it.
Ali: “You can even have all zeroes, if nobody knows what to think of you.” 
Sylvia: Does anybody have…? [Ali laughs] You know, before I go.
Keith: And this is our reputation, not reality.
Ali: Uh huh, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, this is how people perceive you.
Ali: Mm-hmm. I have a vibe.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: But I'm letting— you know, if anybody wants to jump in here and really feels strongly. Oh, okay, Eddy’s already on the board. So, let’s…
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: We're off to the races here. Claim your squares.
Keith: I should use my real name. [Ali and Sylvia laugh] Sorry, I said I should use my real name as I deleted my real name and added the character’s name. 
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Your real name.
Keith: That’s how in character I am.
Janine: Method. Very method.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Wow.
Sylvia: I'm not doing anything surprising with what I've got here.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: You know. Play to your strengths.
Ali: Mm-hmm. I feel like I'm also following my typecast here. However. 
Sylvia: No, it’s good, though.
Ali: However.
Sylvia: Again, it’s just the perception.
Ali: Mm-hmm. Okay, we have all claimed this. So, I am a 1 Prep, a 1 Nerd, a -1 Goth, and a -1 Jock.
Sylvia: I have 2 Goth, 1 Nerd, -2 Prep, and -1 Jock? Am I reading that right?
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: I think I am.
Keith: Uh…oh, sorry, Janine, you're next.
Janine: Oh. I have 1 Jock, 1 Goth, -1 Nerd, -1 Prep.
Keith: I have 2 Jock, 0 Prep, 0 Goth, -2 Nerd.
Ali: Wonderful. [laughs] 
Sylvia: No, no, sorry. That was just me rubbing my face. I was also being quoted in chat as saying I have two goths, and bro, I got way more than that. Come on. [Ali laughs] And I'm putting on sunglasses, and I'm lighting a cigarette and leaving.
Ali: Yeah, I love Dune 2. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Sylvia: Dune 2 goths at once! All right. I gotta go.
“Finish Setup” [1:43:27]
Ali: Finish setup. “Give your town a name. Sketch a rough map. Mark the places you've created and where your PCs live in relation to them. Maybe add a few roads and a body of water. Spend a few minutes discussing ways your plots can fit together, but not too long. You'll figure out the rest in play.” I forgot that we had to do that, so. [laughs] I guess we—
Sylvia: Mosier’s Grocers? Is this new? [Ali laughs] I kind of fuck with it though.
Janine: I tried to clean up Keith’s suggestion.
Keith: Yes, that’s just mine without calling it—
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: Instead of being Moster’s Grossters?
Keith: Obviously, Moster’s Grossters is just what people call it to insult it.
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: [laughs quietly] Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Okay.
Keith: Thank you, Janine.
Sylvia: Also, people in the chat: jock goths exist. I know so many jock goths.
Ali: Yeah. Yeah.
Janine: Yeah. Uh huh. Yeah.
Sylvia: Google health goth.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Brief Googles.
Keith: Oh yeah, there’s a ton of— sorry, have you not heard of the, uh…
Sylvia: Glenn Danzig? [quiet laughter] 
Keith: No, the, uh…fuck. The Mind Freak himself?
Sylvia: Oh yeah, Criss Angel!
Keith: Criss Angel?
Ali: Oh, sure. Is Shadow the Hedgehog a health goth?
Sylvia: I think so. I could see it.
Ali: Okay. Just checking.
Janine: I don't—
Ali: Just checking.
Janine: No, I think… [Ali laughs quietly] He has a gun. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Jocks can have guns.
Ali: But he’s running around.
Janine: Guns are prep to me.
Ali: Whoa! [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Uh, no. I don't know if that… [Ali and Janine laugh]
Keith: Oh. No. No, guns can be prep.
Sylvia: Guns can be either. It depends on the type. If you've got a glock…
Janine: I think as a prep matures, a prep becomes a gun person. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Fair.
Janine: The prep to gun pipeline.
Keith: The real thing is that Shadow the Hedgehog is a science experiment, which is Nerd, and so you have to balance, okay, he’s super fast, but he has rocket shoes, and he’s…
Ali: No. Okay, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Sylvia: Never call Shadow a prep.
Janine: By that definition, Flubber is a nerd, and I don't think Flubber’s a nerd.
Sylvia: I think Flubber’s a bit of a nerd.
Ali: Frankenstein’s monster isn't a nerd. Like, come on.
Keith: I think Flubber actually is a nerd. Flubber is a prep nerd.
Janine: Mm…
Sylvia: Anyway, Shadow the Hedgehog’s not.
Ali: Frankenstein’s monster is obviously a goth…
Sylvia: A goth jock.
Keith: A goth jock.
Ali: A goth jock, yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Famously.
Sylvia: So strong.
Ali: Uh huh. [laughs] Okay, well. 
Sylvia: Shadow has, like, soap shoes and shit. Like, he’s not a prep. He might even— you know what? He might be a goth nerd.
Ali: Okay. Yeah.
Keith: That’s what I'm saying, is that—
Janine: He’s also not really a…he’s not genetically— he’s not, like, physically athletic. He has tools. He’s tool-assisted athletic. That makes him a nerd.
Sylvia: He’s the ultimate lifeform, so.
Keith: He’s the ultimate lifeform. He’s—
Janine: He’s a goth nerd.
Keith: He’s enhanced by his tools, but he is not…he is not just his tools.
Janine: He’s enhanced by his tools in a way that, like, barely makes him equal to Sonic, so…
Sylvia: Wow.
Keith: Wow.
Janine: And Sonic is max jock.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah.
Keith: Sonic is jock, yeah. 
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: Sonic is 2 Jock.
Janine: So if we define Shadow by where we're placing Sonic, then, ergo… [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: What’s GM here on this map?
Ali: That’s Grociers’ Mosiers or whatever the fuck we're calling this.
Sylvia: I think you got that backwards.
Janine: The other way around. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: It’s the French version. It’s Grociers de Mosiers. [laughter] 
Keith: No, that’s where we all go after work to unwind, is the Mosiers. It’s the Grociers’ Mosiers.
Ali: Okay. This is fixed. Don't worry about it.
Sylvia: Damn! Yeah, no, it’s being fixed. [Ali laughs] Not sarcastic! Sorry, that sounded sarcastic. Didn't mean it that way. I was actually impressed by the moving of the letters.
Ali: This is A for the accountant. I should probably just use this in actual text instead of hand drawing them. I assume that we want…this is our shopping center.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: I think this is gonna be Meatballs, because that was in the same shopping center, right, Janine?
Sylvia: Yeah. I'm gonna do a little thing [Janine: Mm-hmm.] far away for the drive-in theater. That doesn't feel like…
Ali: Yeah, please.
Sylvia: This is just a square. 
Ali: What should our in-between store be? What else would be there? 
Keith: Liquor store.
Ali: Oh, a— what did you say? 
Keith: Liquor store?
Ali: Oh.
Keith: That’s just what’s always right next to a grocery store, because they can't sell liquor in it.
Ali: Is that true in New Jersey?
Janine: Can't they sell liquor in a lot of grocery stores?
Keith: Uh, in—
Janine: In the states?
Keith: In the states, mostly it’s no alcohol or sometimes you can get beer and wine. I think it’s town to town.
Ali: Yeah. I know California you can, and it always creeps me out when I go there. Grocery…
Janine: Yeah, like, I thought you could get beer and stuff at, like, anywhere. Like, convenience stores and, like, all kinds of places.
Sylvia: It depends on the state, right?
Keith: It’s just beer and wine, usually.
Ali: Grocery stores in New Jersey can't sell alcoholic beverages, so yeah, just beer and wine.
Janine: Interesting. Okay.
Ali: So, liquor store. I was gonna say dry cleaners.
Sylvia: Dry cleaners is good.
Ali: But we can have both.
Keith: Well, if it’s next to the liquor store, it’s a wet cleaners.
Janine: Boo.
Ali: Shut the fuck up. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Sylvia: Get the fuck out of here.
Janine: Ali, when you said dry cleaners, truly, my brain immediately went, “You can't get liquor from a dry cleaners.” [Ali and Keith laugh] No matter what state you're in.
Sylvia: Dre in the chat says you can buy alcohol in a drive through in Kentucky, let alone grocery stores.
Keith: Yeah. [Ali sighs]
Janine: Uhh…
Sylvia: Which reminds me of there was a promotion happening here at Tim Hortons, where they had Baileys flavoring in stuff.
Janine: Yeah, but it wasn't actually Baileys.
Sylvia: It wasn't actually Baileys, but on the algorithmic podcast ads they were giving me, they never mentioned that it wasn't alcoholic, so I just was getting ads about, “Come get your Baileys and Tims from the drive through,” and being like, “Yo, what?”
Ali: Oh.
Janine: Did you try it? Did you try one?
Sylvia: No, I didn't.
Janine: I had the Baileys cold brew. It wasn't bad. I'm not, like, a Baileys person, but it was fine.
Sylvia: I can't drink Baileys, 'cause high school, and I'll leave it at that.
Janine: Ah, yeah. I was a good girl, so I'm okay with it. [Ali and Sylvia laugh] Good girl, brackets, derogatory. I don't mean that like…that wasn't a flex.
Sylvia: I've mixed some horrible things with Baileys in my time.
Ali: I'm gonna bring back my signature color here and draw my house.
Sylvia: Oh yeah, shit, I've gotta draw a house.
Ali: I can't wait until we come back to this game—potentially; I don't know if we're actually gonna do that, so don't hold me to it—and I'm like, “What the fuck are all these letters?” 'cause that’s going to happen.
Keith: No, we would know. It’s clear. We could put a key.
Janine: What’s A?
Keith: Do we want to put a key?
Ali: I literally hate Roll…A is an accountant.
Sylvia: Okay.
Ali: That’s the accountant that I had for my character gen thing.
Janine: What’s DC? 
Ali: That is the dry cleaners.
Keith: District of Columbia.
Ali: [laughing] Shut the fuck up.
Sylvia: I'm writing us out a little legend.
Janine: Thank you.
Keith: Sorry.
Ali: I live over here by the Drive-in Picture Show. I'm gonna start using text. [typing] Maddie’s house. Maddie’s, line break, house.
Sylvia: L is the liquor store, yeah?
Ali: Yes.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: And that M is— that was Meatballs?
Ali: Yes.
Sylvia: Hell yeah. Okay. [Ali laughs] I've got everything that we've done so far written down.
Janine: I kind of imagine Meatballs, like, a little bit, like, further off.
Ali: Oh, okay.
Janine: Not, like, super further off, but like, you know how sometimes you get, like, a big…there’s like a mall with a big parking lot, and then in the corner, there’ll be a restaurant?
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Oh, I do know exactly about that.
Janine: You know?
Ali: I can fix this, yeah. I can fix it. Oh, fuck Roll20.
Janine: Oh, I can't. I thought I could.
Ali: Jesus christ. Oh my god, please stop doing that. Please stop doing that. It’s gonna do it. Mm.
Janine: You want me to draw two big circles for you to move? 
Ali: [laughs] No, I don't.
Keith: Stay tuned.
Janine: There you go.
Keith: PALISADE. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Ali: Oh, no, I didn't want that to be extra large. Roll20 really does suck now.
Janine: It’s rough. It’s rough.
Ali: Okay. I'm adding a new road…new road there.
Sylvia: I've added my house.
Ali: Are these zombies in the corner? What am I looking at?
Sylvia: I think they're trees, but they're sort of reversed.
Ali: Okay.
Janine: Yeah, trees go the other way.
Sylvia: I didn't draw these. I think this is a Keith project.
Keith: Well, the map radiates out from the center, so all the houses on this side of the street should be like this.
Sylvia: Oh.
Keith: That’s how I'm gonna build my house. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Oh my god.
Sylvia: Okay.
Ali: Oh, Keith today.
Keith: But it’s facing over here. It’s facing the other way.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: I like it.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Yeah, no. I get it.
“Playing the Game” [1:52:46]
Ali: [sighs] Okay. Well, while people do their doodles, I'm gonna read the next section. Playing the Game: “Now that you have characters and a setting, it’s time to use them. Transition from creating players to playing the first few scenes can be awkward in GMless games, but play with the following agenda in mind, and things should pick up quickly. Player Agenda: Embrace complications.” I feel like we have done that.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: “Create messy webs of relationships. Meddle in other people’s problems. Find the pain in funny situations and the humor in serious ones. Don't be afraid to get a little trashy.” We have our trashy drop here. [Sylvia laughs quietly] Which, you know, we'll use our discretion on that one.
Janine: I'm choosing to believe that’s trashy like soap opera trashy, you know?
Ali: Sure.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Sure, sure, sure. Primary and Secondary Characters: “There are technically no non-player characters. If a character appears in a scene, they're controlled by a player.” We know this. We do this.
Sylvia: Yeah. We do this. 
Ali: Everybody claims an NPC?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Okay. Thank you, Ethan, for writing that out for people who don't do this professionally.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Playing Scenes: “Take turns setting scenes. On your turn, say where the next scene takes place, who’s there, and what’s happening when it starts. The scene can focus on your own PC working towards resolving a plot, or you can earn a token by setting a scene that addresses another PC's plot—or journal, if this is a multi session campaign,” which I don't think that it will be. “If you do this, you can still play your PC in the scene, or you can play a secondary character, or you can just describe what’s going on around the characters. Play out the scene until a PC does something risky or challenging or until you're not sure what should happen. At this point, roll dice and find out who gets say in what happens next.” 
And now I'm gonna move onto what these dice rolls look like. “It is easy to overlook small low-stakes actions that should trigger dice rolls, but rolling dice often will help you when earning tokens. The action doesn't need to be earth-shattering. If it isn't guaranteed to work or either a success or failure would change something in the story, it’s worth rolling. All dice rolls work the same way. Roll two six-sided dice and add your most relevant trait to the total.” Traits here are Goth, Prep, Nerd, Jock. [laughs quietly] “To choose which trait to add, consider which part of your reputation you'll reinforce if you succeed. To impress somebody, you'll roll Prep by default, but if you try to impress them with your trivia knowledge, roll plus Nerd. [Sylvia laughs] If you write a sad poem, roll plus Goth. If you arm wrestle them, roll plus Jock. If the trait you should use isn't obvious, roll plus Jock for physical, plus Nerd for mental, plus Prep for social, and plus Goth for creative challenges.” [laughs] 
Sylvia: I love it. [Janine laughs]
Ali: “If your setting includes magical or supernatural elements, roll plus Goth to deal with those.”
Sylvia: Let’s fucking go.
Ali: Uh huh. “When you act against the environment, a secondary character, the laws of physics, or anything but another PC, you can change these results with tokens. Spend a token to raise the result by one tier. Earn a token by lowering the result one tier,” so keep that in mind. “10 or higher: You succeed. Say what happens. 7 to 9: You succeed, but other players can suggest a complication. Choose one or more of their suggestions and use it in the outcome. Or 6 or lower: The player who’s least involved in the scene decides how your action made the situation worse,” which rules. 
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Ali: When you act against another PC, 10 or higher: You decide what happens, unless your target gives you a token to change the result to a 7 to 9. 7 to 9: You choose, but your target chooses a complication. Or 6 or lower: Your target decides what happens, unless you give them a token to change your result to a higher tier. Once the immediate outcome is resolved, the scene ends, and the next player takes turns setting the next scene. Success doesn't give you unlimited power. When you describe your success, don't describe what other characters do in response.” No godmodding tonight, okay, folks?
Sylvia: Okay, yeah.
Ali: [grumbles sarcastically]
Janine: Is it godmodding or godmoding? I've never known.
Ali: You know, that’s really interesting.
Janine: I don't think I've, like, seen it typed.
Sylvia: Huh.
Ali: Yeah, I've never said it out loud. [laughs] But yeah, don't control other players’ characters. “That’s up to the people playing them. Likewise, when you're choosing how a PC's failure made the situation worse, they still get to decide how their PC reacts to it, and no matter whose turn it is to set the scene and who was the right of way to decide the outcome. Anybody can pause the game if the story is headed somewhere they don't want to go.” Any questions there?
[brief pause]
Keith: No.
Ali: Okay, cool. Does anybody want to read this Using Tokens section?
Sylvia: Sure.
Keith: Uh, if I can find my— okay. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Sorry, Keith. Beat you to it.
Keith: It’s okay. I lost my page.
Sylvia: “Your reputation doesn't really reflect who you really are anymore, if it ever did. People might think you're amazing at something just because you got lucky that one time. They might think you're terrible at something because you used to be, but they don't know about all those online courses you've taken since then. Tokens represent your ability to act against expectations. You start with one token. Whenever you earn or spend a token, answer the question associated with that token use. Earn tokens by complicating things. Earn one token by lowering a dice result by one tier; from a 10+ to a 7-to-9 or from a 7-to-9 to a 6. You're not as good at this as people think. Why not? Earn one token when you take another Plot from the list or write your own.”
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: “Earn one token when you use another PC's plot or journal in a scene. Spend tokens to change outcomes or traits. Spend one token to raise a dice result by one tier; from 6 to 7-to-9 or from 7-to-9 to 10. People expect you to fail at this. Why are they wrong? If you're acting against another PC, you can only change your roll to a 7-to-9, not a 10. Give the other player the token instead of returning it to the pile. You can spend one token to shift your reputation on the graph by one square in any direction, to a max of two and a min of minimus— of minus two.” Minimus. [Ali laughs] “Your reputation will still add up to zero. Whose opinion of you has changed? Spend one token to raise another player’s result by one tier and shift their reputation by one square towards the trait they used for the action. Why do you think they can do this? If another player rolls a 10+, you can give them a token to lower it to a 7-to-9. How do you make this harder for them? If they're acting against you, they must take it. Otherwise, it’s their choice. Spend three tokens to Break the Slate.” Does somebody else want to read that part?
Keith: Sure, yeah. Breaking the Slate: “Once per game, when you do something nobody expects, something that reflects what you think you are, whether anyone else believes it or not, you can spend three tokens to add a new trait. There's no list to choose from. You just make something up. The new trait doesn't need to be cute or clever. Don't stress about it or hold up the game while you think of the perfect phrase. Just pick something that describes more or less what you're going for. Say what kind of action it applies to, if it’s not obvious. It should include the thing you're trying to do, and it can overlap with one of the reputation traits but shouldn't match any of them exactly. The stat for your new trait is +2. Roll with it to do the thing. Regardless of the outcome, you keep the new trait, and you can use it whenever it applies. All of your reputation traits reset to zero. Nobody knows what to expect from you now.”
Sylvia: Wow.
Keith: Damn.
Sylvia: Do we need to read the “Session Two and Beyond” thing, or are we good?
Ali: I think we're good. We're probably gonna have this be a one-shot. Sorry, I decided right now was the time that I would create tokens. [Janine and Ali laugh quietly] Except that I don't know how to make tokens editable by everybody.
Sylvia: Mm.
Janine: Oh, I forget how to do that. Is it a setting in the token itself, or is it a setting in the…?
Ali: I feel like it used to be a setting for the token, but now it…token layer? Token layer? Token layer? Oh, I don't like how that changed how everybody looks or that I can't move this.
Sylvia: I might step away just for, like, a brief second to run to the bathroom, while this is…
Ali: Yeah, I feel like this would be a great break point, and we're just gonna put up a break thing, and I'm gonna add these tokens to the map, and everybody can take a minute to themselves.
Keith: Great.
Ali: And then we'll come back and be playing.
Keith: All right, be right back.
Ali: Okay.
Janine: Cool. Yeah.
Ali: See you all at top of the hour, six minutes.
Janine: BRB.
Ali: BRB.
Break [2:02:25]
Ali: Hi, everybody. We're back.
Sylvia: I was like…you said, “Hi, everybody,” [Ali laughs] and I was gonna be like, “Yeah, and that’s the time I disemboweled a guy.” I was gonna do that when we came back, but I didn't get it in time. [Keith laughs]
Ali: Ohhh.
Sylvia: It’s fine.
Ali: Right.
Sylvia: It’s fine. Keith’s the disemboweler here. 
Ali: Uh huh. Oh, sure.
Sylvia: It wouldn't have been believable if I said it. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Stealing, uh…what’s the opposite of valor?
Sylvia: Disenvalor. Um, I don't know.
Keith: Notoriety. [Janine laughs]
Ali: Disenvalor. Wow.
Keith: Disenvalor.
Sylvia: Sorry.
Janine: Sylvi, what’s the strangest thing you mixed with, uh… [cross] Baileys?
Keith: [cross] Glue. Oh.
Sylvia: Gatorade.
Ali: Gatorade?
Janine: Ew!
Sylvia: It’s what I had! I was 16!
Janine: Ew! What kind of Gatorade flavor?
Keith: Why didn't you just drink the Baileys on its own?
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: I don't know. So, I thought that if I mixed Gatorade with the alcohol, I wouldn't feel it afterwards, 'cause I'm hydrating at the same time.
Ali: Oh, sure.
Janine: What flavor of Gatorade, though?
Keith: But Baileys has such a low amount of alcohol. You had to drink so much Baileys.
Sylvia: It was the blue one. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Ew. 
Sylvia: I don't know. 
Janine: Did it curdle the Baileys?
Sylvia: I don't remember. I remember it tasted bad.
Janine: Mm.
Ali: Okay. Okay. I have two things to say here, which is that that trick does work if you're drinking whiskey and coconut water. I once went to a speakeasy in Chinatown [laughs quietly] where they had all these fancy drinks, and one of them was just fucking whiskey and coconut water, and it banged.
Sylvia: That does sound pretty good.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Ali: So, do that. And then I—
Keith: Sorry, the trick? What do you mean the trick works?
Ali: Well, the…
Sylvia: Well, you don't get a hangover.
Ali: Where you're like, “Oh, I'm hydrating while I'm drinking, so now I'm not gonna be sick after this.”
Keith: Okay.
Ali: You think that works, right? That works.
Keith: I just think sometimes people drink without throwing up. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: No, this is true.
Ali: Well, not throwing up but waking up dehydrated.
Keith: Oh, sure. I just drink a lot of water when I drink.
Ali: Sure. [sarcastic] Well, ooh, look at Mr. Responsible here.
Sylvia: Good for you. Yeah.
Keith: I'm extremely responsible. 
Ali: [laughs] I think the worst thing that I had was I was trying to order, like, a whiskey with lime, because for some reason, when I started drinking, that’s what I was doing. I was getting whiskey with lime juice. And then the waitress just gave me, like, two different types of whiskeys in, like, a cocktail glass? 
Sylvia: Uh?
Ali: And I drank it, 'cause I felt like I needed to, you know? 'Cause I ordered it?
Janine: Oh no.
Keith: But you didn't order it.
Ali: And I kept being like, “What the fuck is this?” [laughs] 
Janine: You didn't order it, yeah.
Keith: You ordered a whiskey sidecar, [Ali: Uh huh.] and they were like, “Okay, whiskey sidecar. So, that’s a whiskey, and then on the side, another whiskey in a little sidecar glass.”
Ali: Mm-hmm. Uh huh. Uh huh.
Janine: If she’d brought you a raw squid, would you have eaten it?
Ali: Maybe. Can everybody try to move these little Sims plumbobs and see if you can do that? You should be able to do that.
Sylvia: Okay.
Janine: Sims plumbobs. Where? 
Ali: They're in the former B Plot area.
Janine: Oh, I see.
Sylvia: Yeah, I got it.
Ali: Ooh, okay.
Janine: Oops. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Been moved. Confirmed: can move. [Janine laughs]
Janine: Uh, can I delete that? I don't know if I can— okay. Okay. All right.
Ali: And then, instead of our A Plot section, I've created a cheat sheet for us, so we now know when we earn or spend tokens.
Keith: That’s Goku’s wife.
Ali: Huh? [laughs] Cheat Sheet?
Keith: Chi-Chi.
Ali: Shut the fuck up.
Sylvia: Really good joke! That’s a really good one!
Ali: No, it wasn't! [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah, no, I liked that one a lot. [Keith and Ali laugh]
[cut]
Ali: Hello?
Sylvia: Hello.
Keith: Hi.
Ali: Hello!
Keith: Hello! I forgot about that from the beginning. Hello! [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Hello!
Keith: Hello!
Ali: Hey, guys. Okay, hi. Why is everybody— you guys have not earned these tokens, by the way. I just wanted you to see if you could move them.
Sylvia: I think we all start with one.
Janine: Oh.
Ali: Do we all start with one?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: All right. All right, sorry. Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Sylvia: I read the thing. I know. 
Janine: Jeez.
Keith: Oh, that’s what these tokens are.
Sylvia: Yeah, you start with one token. Whenever you earn or spend a token…
Janine: [mocking] You haven't earned these tokens. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: My tokens.
Sylvia: Big token over here.
Janine: That I set up for us as a group.
Ali: I thought we were all just getting token hungry over here.
Sylvia: No.
Ali: Okay. [Ali and Janine laugh quietly] 
Keith: We've earned these gemeralds. That's what these are to me.
Ali: Okay, I was gonna— so, I fucked up, because I did this roll a d10 thing to say that whoever had the highest had to do the first scene, and then we would go left to right from there, and it was me, [laughs] so now I have to think of a scene, which is too bad. That’s too bad for me, but…
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Ali: [laughing] I'm gonna roll back up to the…
Keith: It’s funny, because you made up the game, didn't explain the rules, and then lost the game, but you could have just lied and said that there was a different game, it’s the lowest, and then made me go.
Sylvia: We should pause really quick. I think people in the chat are having a problem.
Ali: What kind of problem?
Keith: What kind of problem?
Sylvia: There’s, like, a loop? Some people say the stream is looping. Two people.
Keith: Those people should refresh the page.
Janine: A horrifying three second laugh loop. Oh my god. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: I think I have a nice laugh. Okay, we have people saying it’s working. Okay. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Yeah, mine just works.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay. I just wanted to make sure this wasn't…
Janine: I'm actually disappointed. 
Sylvia: Yeah, me too.
Keith: Step one for Twitch is every time a reconnection happens, just refresh, 'cause something always breaks or the video doesn't come back, and it’s always best to just refresh.
Ali: Wow, I didn't know this about…I did not know about this.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Twitch sponsored by Roll20.
Ali’s Scene [2:08:08]
Ali: “On your turn, say where the next scene takes place, who’s there, and what’s happening when it starts. The scene can focus on your PC working towards resolving your Plot, or you can earn a token by setting the scene that addresses another PC’s plot.” Interesting. Okay. Denise owes me money but paid me with a scratch off instead. Hmm. Well, this doesn't have to be anything crazy. We're setting the scene here. We're probably in Moseer’s Grocieers.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Monsieur’s Grociars? How—
Keith: Mosier’s Grociers.
Ali: Mosier’s—
Sylvia: Monsieur? [Ali laughs] Mosier’s Grociers.
Ali: Mosier’s Grociers. Okay, we're in Mosier’s Grociers. Maybe it’s, like, a…maybe this is like a 9 p.m., store’s closing in an hour an a half situation.
Keith: Summer, warm summer night?
Ali: Warm summer night.
Keith: Is it winter?
Sylvia: I want summer.
Keith: Okay, warm summer night. This game feels summer, to me.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Summer game.
Sylvia: I need summer just 'cause it’s winter real life. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Janine: Yeah, true.
Ali: Uh huh. Mm-hmm. Maybe…hmm. Owes me money but paid me with the scratch off instead. I feel like what I could be doing in the scene is, like, going to be like, “Hey, I'd like to exchange a scratch off,” but for some reason maybe it’s like, oh, it’s like a time-based thing? [laughs] But I think that’s not how scratch offs work, so…
Sylvia: That’s fine. It can work like that here.
Janine: Huh?
Keith: They can— they do expire. I one time tried to return, like, a four month old scratch off that I had forgotten about, [Ali: Mm-hmm.] because it’s not part of my routine.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And they were like, “This is expired.” It was, like, 50 bucks too.
Janine: Whoa.
Ali: Whoa. I was thinking the other way.
Janine: I think you get, like, a year here or something.
Ali: Whoa.
Janine: I could be wrong.
Ali: Yeah, I guess it depends on the company. Maybe the scratch off reading machine is broken. [laughs]
Keith: Mm.
Sylvia: Oh, that’s a good contrivance to keep it from happening.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: No, I fuck with it.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Okay. So, I'm going to Eddy or whoever’s at the lottery counter.
Janine: Yo. Remember, I did something horrible to you.
Ali: I know. And you've never successfully apologized, and you can't even avoid me now.
Janine: Do you want to— should we define what the horrible thing is? Because I feel like otherwise it’s, like, maybe too open to interpretation. [Ali and Sylvia laugh]
Ali: Sure.
Janine: It’s, like, kind of menacing in a way that’s, like, awful.
Ali: What terrible thing did you do to me?
Janine: So, I think we dated in high school.
Ali: [gasps] 
Janine: And not only did I break up with you over text, [Ali: Whoa.] I actually broke up— I was breaking up with two people at the same time, and I got you mixed up. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Holy fuck.
Keith: Sitcom. Classic. [Janine laughs]
Sylvia: Archie Andrews moment.
Ali: Wow. Wow.
Janine: Uh huh.
Ali: Hey—
Sylvia: [voice] That text was supposed to go to Veronica, but it went to Betty! [Ali laughs]
Janine: That’s the kind of guy Eddy is. One goth, one jock. [Sylvia laughs]
Ali: Whoa. Whoa! [clears throat] 
(as Maddie): Hey, Eddy.
Janine (as Eddy): [awkwardly] Maddie, hi. What can I do you for?
Ali (as Maddie): I have a scratch off ticket.
Janine (as Eddy): Oh. Mm…okay. Can you, like, come back tomorrow?
Ali (as Maddie): I'm not working tomorrow.
Janine (as Eddy): The thing’s…oh, well, you live, like, right down the street. Whatever. 
Ali (as Maddie): I'm not coming here when I'm not working.
Janine (as Eddy): All right! I'm sorry. Uh…the machine’s not working.
Ali (as Maddie): What?
Janine (as Eddy): Yeah, the machine’s not…it’s like…I don't know. It keeps, like, giving weird errors?
Ali (as Maddie): Did you put in a repair request? 'Cause I feel like I don't remember seeing one in the system, and people are gonna come in here with their scratch offs. This is the scratch off hour.
Janine (as Eddy): Did I— yeah, the—
Janine: I was gonna say the night guy, but it’s like, they don't sell lottery tickets at night. [Ali laughs] I guess they must, like a 24 hour…
Ali: They send the— yeah. I guess? 
Janine (as Eddy): The night lottery guy said he did it. So I just— I mean, I guess maybe he didn't. Maybe he’s just fucking me over. That happens. Do you want me to, like, do another one or something? Or is that worse, if there’s two in there?
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] [quietly] It’s worse if there’s two in there. [regular volume] I really need this money.
Janine (as Eddy): Don't we all. I can't…
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs]
Janine (as Eddy): I'm not the state. I can't sign that one myself. I've gotta check with the thing.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh, you're not the state. Sure. 
Janine (as Eddy): No. [Keith laughs quietly] Not yet.
Janine: Wink.
Ali (as Maddie): Mm-hmm. Okay, well, what if…what if…what if you scanned a different card, one that is, like, $5 or whatever, and then the register opened, and then you gave me the number that’s on this ticket, and then later we just, we scan it when it works. You know what I mean?
Janine (as Eddy): No, that doesn't make any sense to me, Maddie.
Ali (as Maddie): [frustrated sigh]
Janine (as Eddy): I have no idea what you're talking— are you telling me to steal?
Ali (as Maddie): I'm not telling you to steal. 
Janine (as Eddy): You want me to steal for you? 
Ali (as Maddie): I'm telling you to let me borrow this money, because I'm being inconvenienced. What if I was a customer? I could be a customer right now.
Janine (as Eddy): How am I even gonna know how much money it’s for?
Ali (as Maddie): 'Cause it says. Look at the scratch off. It says—
Janine (as Eddy): No, but the code tells you.
Ali (as Maddie): No, but I—
Janine (as Eddy): The triangles and stuff, it means…
Ali (as Maddie): I have three strawberries, and I have the times two multiplier—
Janine (as Eddy): Yeah, but you could've—
Ali (as Maddie): And the strawberries mean $500, and the plus two multiplier means that it’s $1000, and I kind of really thought that I would go home tonight with $1000.
Janine (as Eddy): Maddie, Maddie, Maddie, Maddie, Maddie. Maddie. Maddie. You know how this works.
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] 
Janine (as Eddy): You know how this works. You coulda put that strawberry— you coulda drawn that strawberry on. You coulda—
Ali (as Maddie): Does this look drawn?
Janine (as Eddy): I know you love your scrapbooking. You coulda scrapbooked that up.
Ali (as Maddie): Does this look—
Janine: And the only way I know is if I scan in the code. 
[computer notification bloop]
[Ali laughs]
Sylvia: I'm asking in the chat genuinely. I didn't want to throw off the roleplaying.
Ali: Yeah, that Roll20 noise was so fucking loud. That’s what… [laughs] 
Sylvia: Oh, I'm so sorry! I was trying—
Ali: [laughing] That was the loudest Roll20 noise I've ever heard!
Sylvia: Shit, my bad.
Ali: [laughing] It’s all good, but I'm just wondering what happened to my Roll20! And I'm gonna turn off background chat sounds.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: What’s happening to Roll20? The UI doesn't work anymore. They bass boosted all their chat noises. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Sylvia: Now when you chat, it makes the TikTok thump noise. 
Keith: [modulated] Boodloolooop.
Sylvia: Oh no. I hate that with that voice mod, Keith. 
Janine: Awful, yeah.
Sylvia: I hate that a lot. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Take it up with Roll20.
Sylvia: Yeah, you're right. Anyway, I was asking in the chat if you guys should roll dice against each other.
Ali: I feel like that’s maybe…maybe that’s the way to go here. Let’s look at those rules again.
Janine: And if Maddie wins, I illegally give her money?
Ali: Well, you open up the— you open the drawer.
Janine: Okay. That’s…
Ali: You just open the drawer up. You put the—
Janine: Is there $1000 of cash in our checkouts?
Ali: If you're the lottery counter.
Sylvia: I don't know if that’s how that… [Ali laughs]
Janine: I don't know that that’s how that works.
Ali: How does that work?
Janine: Because then why wouldn't you rob the lottery counter all of the time?
Keith: Well, that’s why they go to convenience— people rob convenience stores all the time. That’s mostly where people buy…
Sylvia: Yeah, but they don't keep $1,000,000 there for when you win the lottery. [Ali laughs]
Keith: No. Well, that’s different. Those get sent to the state.
Ali: I feel like when I— I mean, this was— I worked in an electronics store, so we were doing large cash transactions, but I feel like your safe has $10,000, $20,000…
Janine: Okay, well, this is— okay, so, hang on. This is— [mumbles] okay. 
Ali: Okay. [laughs] 
Janine: I looked up how this works in Ontario, which is not really relevant to Jersey.
Sylvia: Eh.
Janine: Everything’s a little bit wilder there. But in Ontario, it says some retailers have the option to pay up to $999.90. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Holy fuck. Wait.
Janine: If they have the cash available.
Sylvia: That makes it so much better!
Janine: To claim lottery prizes from $1000 to under $10,000, you can take advantage of OLG’s mail-in claim process. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Well, I think that you gotta— I think that maybe New Jersey might—
Ali: This is Atlantic City. This is a gambling town.
Sylvia: That’s true.
Ali: They definitely have a $2000 limit or whatever. 
Janine: True. That’s true. [Ali laughs] Oh, also they say that every lottery retailer can pay up to and including $50, and then some have the option to pay up to $999.90. 
Ali: Sure, okay. Yeah. [sighs] 
Janine: Why is it 999.90 and not 99 cents?
Keith: [cross] Oh, you do not want to be in the dreaded no man’s land of 999.90 and 999.99.
Sylvia: [cross] ‘Cause we don't have the penny anymore.
Janine: Oh fuck, you're right. But then it could be 95.
Sylvia: Yeah, but that's way less satisfying, I feel like. I don't know.
Janine: Anyway.
Ali (as Maddie): Why don't you just give me $50, which I know you can ring up, and then you put the scratch off ticket in the register, which will be sealed with the rest of the money, and then when the machine works, you scan it, you see that it says $1000, and then when that happens, the manager gives me the money.
Janine (as Eddy): Minus $50.
Ali (as Maddie): [quietly] God, jesus christ.
Janine (as Eddy): Right?
Ali (as Maddie): Yes.
Janine (as Eddy): Hey, Maddie, I don't want to get fired. This is all I got right now. I'm not getting fired so you can have 50 bucks. You're cute, but you're not that cute.
Sylvia: Fucking hell. If my ex said that to me? [Ali laughs]
Ali: “When you act against another PC…” [Janine laughs] Wait, what’s the—? 
Janine: Uh huh?
Ali: Two six-sided dice. We do this all the time.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Roll 2d6. 
Janine: [cross] Do you want to count down?
Ali: [cross] I'm rolling it against you, right? Or…
Janine: I assume.
Sylvia: I would say yeah, this felt like you were trying to convince Janine’s character.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Eddy.
Ali: Yes. I'm rolling.
Janine: Count me in.
Ali: And then— okay. 
Sylvia: What stat is this?
Ali: Huh? Oh, what stat is this?
Sylvia: Is this Prep? Like, is this nerdy?
Janine: I think it’s Prep.
Sylvia: Is this jocky? 
Ali: Yeah, Prep was social, right?
Janine: Yeah, this feels like social stuff.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Especially with the way you've been, like, trying to be like, [Ali laughs] “Just do this, and then it’ll work out like this.” Yeah, that feels right. 
Janine: Yeah. That’s 2d6 minus 1 for me, and then plus 1 for Maddie?
Ali: And then 2d6 plus 1 for me, yeah. Okay. 
Janine: All right.
Ali: Three, two, one. [clicks] We both got a 9. [laughs] 
Janine: Huh.
Sylvia: Uh…
Janine: So then what happens?
Ali: I feel like only one of us should have rolled, but…
Keith: Yeah, I thought that only the person whose scene it is rolls.
Janine: Oh, is that? I thought it was, like…
Sylvia: I think, yeah, I think it’s only Ali would roll here.
Janine: Oh, okay. Sorry.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: So.
Janine: Okay, sorry, sorry. It’s…I thought it was versus…okay.
Sylvia: Yeah, the way you could intercede is with tokens, I think, but…
Janine: Oh, okay, that’s my bad. [Ali laughs]
Keith: There are different rules for acting against another PC, but I don't think it adds a die.
Janine: Okay. Nevermind, nevermind. Ignore that.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: This is a 7 through 9. You succeed, but your target chooses a complication.
Ali: Yes. 
Janine: Mm…
Ali: And then you can spend a token to make me get a failure, a 6 or lower, or I can earn a token by willingly getting a 6 or lower. So.
Janine: Uh, I…mm. 
(as Eddy): I need collateral. You could fuck me on this, you know? 
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] The lottery ticket is collateral.
Janine (as Eddy): I don't think you would fuck with me, but…it’s a lottery ticket I can't do shit with right now.
Ali (as Maddie): It’s a lottery ticket that’s gonna be—
Janine (as Eddy): And if the boss comes in, the big boss comes in and says, “Hey, why are you missing 50 out of your till?” I can't just wave a lottery ticket and be like, “I'm good for it, honestly, look.” It doesn't work like that. You know it doesn't work like that.
Ali (as Maddie): So you'd feel better if you had my watch? That’s what you're saying? That’s what would make you feel comfortable with this?
Janine (as Eddy): Eh…not like a chick watch. Like, something else. [Sylvia and Ali laugh quietly]
Sylvia: Holy fuck.
Ali (as Maddie): This watch is a lot of money. I got it from Cash For Coats, and I really like it, and it works, and you can see that there’s a bunch of jewels on the bezel, and I'm giving you this as collateral. [sarcastic] I'm sorry that it’s girly.
Janine (as Eddy): Yeah, all right. 
Ali (as Maddie): [annoyed sigh] 
[Sylvia laughs quietly]
Ali (as Maddie): 50 fucking dollars.
Sylvia: “Once the immediate outcome is resolved, [Ali laughs] the scene ends. The next player takes a turn setting the scene.”
Ali: Let’s go.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Sylvi’s turn.
Sylvia: Oh shit! Okay. Fuck. [Ali laughs] Um…no, it’s fine.
Ali: Left to right.
Sylvia: Oh man. I don't know why my brain misinterpreted that as the opposite.
Ali: [laughs] I'm going to— I'm just going to write down— a way that we can use our journal sections now is write the outcomes of our individual scenes.
Sylvia: Mm.
Ali: So when we do come back to this, we can be like, “Oh, that’s what happened last in my last scene.”
Keith: Mm, mm-hmm.
Sylvia’s Scene [2:23:10]
Sylvia: Okay. I feel like…I got an idea for a scene with my buddy Nate. Maybe it’s when we start talking about this ritual situation. I had the idea where, like, I'd pick you up on the way to work because of the way the map is laid out, [Keith: Sure.] where like, I have to drive down that way. And…yeah, I don't know. I feel like the way I pick you up from work, I don't necessarily go up and like— I honk the horn outside. I don't go up and, like… [Ali giggles] That’s just, like, how I am. It’s just like, I'm not…it’s like, morning.
Keith: You don't knock on my door or text me?
Sylvia: I mean, I'll text you. Yeah, that’s a good point, but…I’ll do both, 'cause I think, if this annoys you, I'm gonna do it.
Keith: Where do you work, again? You work in the bakery, right?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: That’s so early to be honking the horn. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: That’s— why you think I'm doing it? 'Cause I'm cranky that I'm getting up so early.
Keith: [imitates honk] That’s the horn. [imitates different honk]
Ali: That doesn't sound like any sound, Keith. 
Sylvia: No, that’s a goose is what it…
Ali: What is that?
Keith: [imitates honk] That?
Ali: That’s a goose.
Keith: That’s a horn. That’s the horn of a car.
Sylvia: My car— I need to replace it. It’s an old car. [Ali laughs]
Keith: I just picked an annoying sound that would be shitty to hear at 4:30 in the morning.
Sylvia: Yeah, when I picked baker, I was more just like, “Oh yeah, I love when women are bakers,” not like, “Oh man, she’s gotta get up so early for this job now.” [Ali laughs]
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Them’s the breaks.
Keith: You're the afternoon baker. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: I come in just to sell all the bakery goods that someone else baked earlier.
Ali: And also set up the yeasts that have to rise.
Sylvia: Yeah, there’s other stuff you gotta do.
Keith: Set up the yeast. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: There’s some sort of stuff you gotta do.
Janine: Set up the yeasts?
Ali: Well, the— [laughs] 
Keith: Yeah, you gotta set up the yeasts.
Sylvia: Gotta do a little yeast inspection. 
Ali: [laughs] You mix up the doughs, and they rise overnight for the 3:00 a.m. people.
Janine: [unconvinced] Uh huh. Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, sorry, the layman might say you need to feed your starter, but we know it in the industry as: you gotta set up your yeasts.
Janine: Yeah. Yeah. You gotta plant a gun on them. 
Ali: Uh huh.
Janine: You gotta put their fingerprints, you know…
Ali: Not everything’s sourdough. We can have a nice active yeast.
Sylvia: Honk. Honk honk.
Keith: Right, there’s kulich. You could have a kulich.
Sylvia: Honk. Honk. Honk honk.
Ali: I made bread today.
Janine: Proofing. Proofing.
Keith: And I come out.
(as Nathaniel): I'm out!
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Finally! Come on.
Ali: Oh, are we offline again?
Sylvia: Oh, did we go offline again?
Keith: Uh, we seem online to me.
Sylvia: We seem fine to me.
Ali: Oh, it looked offline to me for a second there. We're back. 
Keith: Okay.
Ali: Okay, sorry for interrupting. 
Keith: People say no.
Ali: Go ahead. Okay.
Sylvia: Um…
(as Jennifer): Hurry up. Zane’s gonna give me shit if I'm late again, even though he’s not even in this morning. He just knows. He just always knows.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. Well, it’s, you punch in.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Okay, technicality. Like, whatever.
Sylvia: This is, like, a…I know I described Joey Trevino’s Civic as being a shitty car that has Goku. I also drive a shitty car, which I think is why…I think it adds some hypocrisy to it that I enjoy.
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: Anyway, we've got just, like…I’m playing, like, Slipknot on my fucking stereo when you get in, being like, “Hey.”
Ali: Let’s go.
Sylvia: You know what I think the way they get in the conversation is?
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Where it’s just like:
(as Jennifer): Oh, hey, I got that book on demonology you wanted from the library.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Good. Nice. 
Sylvia (as Jennifer): What are you—
Keith (as Nathaniel): [quietly] I hate the library.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): What are you doing with— wait, what was that about the library?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I hate the library.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Okay. I kinda just assumed you didn't have a card, man.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't have a card.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Well, yeah, but like, I figured you didn't hate the lib— like, I didn't realize it was, like, an ideological thing.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Right. If I wanted to do it, I'd just get a card. They give cards to everyone for free.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): I know. I know that, man. I just… [Ali laughs quietly] What I was saying is I didn't realize that the core of you not having a card was hatred for the written word.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s not for the written word. It’s Cunningham. Remember Cunningham?
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Yeah, no, we went to school together. Of course— you and I went to school together. [cross] I didn't go to school with her. She’s like 100 years old.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [cross] Right, that’s why I said “Remember Cunningham,” because we—
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Yeah, I remember Cunningham.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I know that you— it was a rhetorical question.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Okay. Yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Cunningham works at the library.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): And you're still mad about her for giving you detention for setting off firecrackers in the bathroom? Like, or what?
Keith (as Nathaniel): [scoffs] As if.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): That was pretty good, by the way.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. Cunningham’s a vampire now.
Sylvia: [laughs quietly] Do you know that, um…there’s a look in True Detective that Woody Harrelson gives to Matthew McConaughey where after he says, like, “Stop saying weird shit,” [Ali: Mm-hmm.] and then he just gives him, like, a really weird look? [Ali laughs] That’s the look that I'm giving. It’s like:
(as Jennifer): Yeah? Like…you know that—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. For 18 months.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): You got, like— for 18 months.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Why—? How did—? Okay. I need to know how you got that figure, [Ali snorts] that timeframe. Like, I really…I’m so curious, Nate.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Because 19 months ago, she was bit by a vampire, and it takes one month to transform.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Fuck, of course. Why didn't I think of that? And who’s the vampire who bit her?
Keith (as Nathaniel): The gas station guy.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Y—
Keith (as Nathaniel): You know, the gas station guy that’s a vampire?
Sylvia (as Jennifer): I— [skeptical] yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): From next door to work.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): No, I know who you're talking about. I just, the vampire thing is…you think you know somebody, I guess is what I'm saying. I didn't really put that together.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Wow, you didn't know that that guy was a vampire? You gotta stay away from there.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): I don't go around asking people if they're vampires, Nate.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You don't have to ask. You just know. You just look, and you're like…and, you know, people talk.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): [unconvinced] Yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I'm not crazy. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Okay, so now we've covered why you didn't want to go to the library. Vampires. Bad vibes.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Totally understandable. The book about the rituals and the demons and such.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, yeah.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): This is connected, I'm assuming?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Proof. I gotta get proof.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): You gotta get…? You're an interesting critter, bro. I've always said that, but today more than ever, I really mean it.
Ali: [laughing] I just have to pause, [Sylvia: Yeah.] because Sylvi has said that to Keith in real life about something Keith actually said.
Keith: Is that true?
Sylvia: [laughs] I say that a lot.
Ali: It’s so funny. [continues laughing]
Sylvia: I say that a lot.
Keith: What was it?
Sylvia: It’s one of my— I think I just said it to you on, like, a recording or something.
Keith: Oh. [laughs] 
Sylvia: “You're an interesting critter, bro,” is from, like, a… [Ali laughs] Here, I found the original. It’s a Snapchat conversation between two people. It’s, “You're the only dude I know who enjoys milk as a refreshment.” “Man, so what?” “You're an interesting critter, bro.” [Ali laughs] So, it’s—
Keith: I'm pretty sure that that’s from Bluff Zoo number two?
Sylvia: Yeah, exactly. [Ali and Keith laugh] It always was, in my head.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You remember when we used to do the wood games and we would, you know, throw bolts and cast spells and stuff?
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Oh, hell yeah, I do. That shit was great. I still got the weird scar on my shoulder from when you— we got in that swordfight with those, um…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): You know, the fallen down tree branches.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I think all that stuff was real. [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: I'm giving the look again.
(as Jennifer): Yeah? What—
Keith (as Nathaniel): I think we were doing real magic.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): [quietly] You think we were doing—
Keith (as Nathaniel): And I think we can do it again.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Okay. And like, hypothetically here…fuck, watch where you're driving!
Sylvia: Just to remind everyone that she’s driving. Someone cut her off. It’s annoying. [Ali laughs quietly]
Keith (as Nathaniel): That was on you.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Oh, shut up, man. I'm busy discovering— I just discovered that I was doing magic as a 12-year-old, okay? Like, give me a minute.
Keith (as Nathaniel): That’s no excuse not to put on your blinker. 
Sylvia (as Jennifer): [sighs] Anyway. Why do want us to commit to the dark arts once again? I've been out of the game for a while now. [laughs quietly] 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Because of the— because there— because we're living in a town with vampires.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): But like…I, okay. Now, like, say for a second…just, like, hear me out. Say we do have vampires here. Who are they…vampires tend to suck people.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): The blood, I mean. [Ali laughs quietly]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Right.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): And I don't think— have there been many exsanguinations in the county recently?
Keith (as Nathaniel): They're covering it up.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Have you, like, been keeping on top of things for this one?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I've been trying to keep on top of it, but they won't release the papers of the police reports.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Oh, censorship.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): [amused] They don't want you to know the truth, huh?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay, I can hear the sarcasm.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Sorry, sorry.
Keith (as Nathaniel): But it is literally what I'm saying, yes.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Oh, my bad, yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): They don't want me to know the truth.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): It’s a lot to process. It’s a lot to process, but I think…so, how do we—? [laughs quietly] How to do we go about this?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh, we need to test out the spell and make sure that it works, and we need to put it to practical use.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): I just…we’re not going to have to, like, sacrifice a goat or anything, right? 'Cause like, I already get enough weird looks at work.
Keith (as Nathaniel): No. If we were sacri— that’s if you want to do demon shit, not stop demon shit.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Okay. Okay, no. As much as this— the problem is, the logic within this world that you're laying out does make sense to me. [Ali laughs quietly]
Keith (as Nathaniel): The world that I'm laying out is the world that we're living in.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Hell yeah, brother. Uh, fine. Okay. Woods again?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, woods again.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Okay. Um…I’m off tomorrow. I guess we could do it then?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I'm on tomorrow.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Fuck. Okay. Uh…
Keith (as Nathaniel): I'm off the next day. [Ali laughs quietly] 
Sylvia (as Jennifer): I'm opening the next day, but if you don't mind me being kind of sleepy for the ritual, we could probably do it after work?
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s dangerous, but it’s probably fine.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): It’s that or wait til the weekend, man, and it’s Monday today, so like…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay. Well, then, Wednesday.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Yeah, okay.
Ali: Dice roll. 
Keith: We’re rolling.
Ali: [laughing] Scheduling dice roll.
Sylvia: Scheduling dice roll? [Ali laughs]
Keith: Do we want to take this as an opportunity to insert something— what do they— how do they describe it in the book? 
Sylvia: Uh…
Keith: Risky or…I don't know. I lost my…I keep losing my…
Sylvia: Your place in the…?
Keith: No, I keep closing the book for no reason.
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: [laughs] Okay, that’s a very different problem.
Keith: Yeah. I'm like, I read something, and then I'm like, “Okay, I'm done,” and then I… [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Was it—
Keith: Just so that we have something to roll that isn't— 'cause we can just agree. 'Cause this is not a conflict. We agreed.
Sylvia: Yeah, this isn't a conflict, but…
Ali: Mm-hmm. Yeah, I guess you can keep playing out the scene until you have an opportunity to act against the environment, a secondary character, laws of physics, or anything but another PC.
Keith: Okay. How about I try to convince you to skip on Wednesday so that you are refreshed?
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: And you want— yeah.
Sylvia: I'm fine with that.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: So, yeah. What— I'm not sure which— this might be Goth. You might be rolling Goth on this one with rituals.
Keith: You're rolling. It’s your scene.
Sylvia: Oh, I'm rolling it. Oh, okay, so you're trying to convince me. Okay, okay.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Okay, so…oh shit, what would I…?
Keith: It could be Prep, 'cause it’s social.
Sylvia: It might be Prep, because I'm trying to also— if I'm rolling against you trying to get me to skip work, it would be…
Keith: Yeah, 'cause it’s not to accomplish the— although, yeah, and also you're trying to resist skipping work, which is not very Goth.
Sylvia: Yeah. I think you are right. I think this is a Prep roll.
Ali: Wow.
Sylvia: I know, crazy.
Keith: Yep.
Ali: Well, we'll see—
Sylvia: Also, I rolled a 2.
Ali: Yeah. We'll see the character come out.
Keith: Damn! You're skipping work.
Ali: Whoa.
Sylvia: The player who— oh, wait, no. It’s your target decides what happens, unless you give them a token to change the result to a 7-to-9, I believe is how this is working. Or are we not—? Is this a—? Yeah, this was a PC thing, right?
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Where the hell is the link to this thing? [Ali laughs quietly] I'm, like, totally…I’m, like, scrolling through everything.
Ali: It’s in Rolling the Dice, on page 14.
Keith: No, sorry, the— here it is. The link. I got confused by, like, the Whatsapp screenshot.
Sylvia: Mm.
Keith: I couldn't find the link you sent. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah, sorry.
Keith: It’s okay. It’s okay.
Sylvia: I just needed the…you know, for posterity’s sake.
Keith: Okay. Target decides what happens. Yeah, sure, okay. So, I decide that you're skipping work, and we're going to meet at 3 p.m., well rested, on Tue— on Wedn— oh, yeah, Wednesday.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): Yeah, sounds good. I feel like I'm already on thin ice at work, so…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Just say someone died. They can't ask you.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): I'm out of grandparents, dude.
Keith (as Nathaniel): They can't ask you who. You shouldn't have ever said what grandparent.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): [sighs] Okay, I'll…if they ask, I'll say it was an uncle.
Keith (as Nathaniel): They can't ask. Don't tell them.
Sylvia (as Jennifer): They ask, though. Like, they— I know they can't, like, legally, but they're still gonna. It’s a small town, dude.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Say, “You can't ask that.”
Sylvia (as Jennifer): All right. I'll tell them they can't ask that.
Sylvia: I think that’s scene. [Ali laughs quietly] I feel like that last bit took place with them after they got out of her car in the parking lot.
Ali: Perfecto.
Sylvia: Hell yeah.
Janine: Okay.
Sylvia: Added it to my journal.
Janine’s Scene [2:38:40]
Janine: For my scene, Nathaniel, where would you be, like…Ali, when do you think Maddie and Eddy were talking?
Ali: I set that up as, like, a 9 p.m., like, an hour and a half before closing.
Janine: Okay, okay. So then, right, early morning and then…alright, so, where would Nathaniel be, like, around lunch break time?
Keith: Um, eating lunch at the little table that— they have, like, you know, six tables for people who got the self serve salad bar and hot bar food.
Janine: Hell yeah. All right. Eddy has been thinking a little, has been thinking about this ticket a little bit and has put some things together. I imagine when Nathaniel realized the ticket was missing, he would bring that up to the lottery counter and be like, “Hey, help.”
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Janine: So I think Eddy has put two and two together, goes to— spots— actually, I bet you can see the salad eating tables from the lottery counter.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: And he, like, pulls up a— he literally grabs a chair from another table and swings around and sits backwards on it, because he is that guy.
Janine (as Eddy): Yo, uh…bro. Hey.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Hey. Cool small watch.
Janine (as Eddy): Oh.
Janine: And he pulls his sleeve down.
Ali: You're wearing it? [laughs] 
Janine: Keith decided I'm wearing it, and I'm not gonna say no. I'm gonna say, “yes, and.” [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Fuck yeah. 
Janine: That’s the game!
Ali: Uh huh. 
Janine (as Eddy): Hey, do you remember you were, like, riding me about that lottery ticket that you lost?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. Yep.
Janine (as Eddy): You got anymore, like, do you know where you lost it, or like…? 
Keith (as Nathaniel): [sighs]
Janine (as Eddy): Any, like, identifying marks on it maybe?
Keith (as Nathaniel): So you've heard. [Ali laughs quietly]
Janine (as Eddy): Huh? I mean, you told me you lost it. You were, like, upset yesterday. You were crying, remember?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. I was upset. I was crying. I don't remember that whole afternoon. Tell me what you've heard about the marks, identifying marks.
Janine (as Eddy): No, I'm asking you. [Ali laughs quietly]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Right.
Janine (as Eddy): I'm not gonna tell you about the marks, because then you'll just say, “Oh, it’s those marks.”
Keith (as Nathaniel): [cross] No. I mean, what have you heard.
Janine (as Eddy): [cross] I'm not stupid.
Keith (as Nathaniel): What have you heard about the marks?
Janine (as Eddy): Noth— uh—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh.
Janine (as Eddy): I'm just asking if the corner was bent.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh. Uh, it was in my pocket, so it was kinda crumpled, but it wasn't—
Janine (as Eddy): In your pocket? Okay, [mumbles]. Your pocket, like, smell like anything identifiable? Like, gum or cigarettes?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh, I keep, um…I keep original flavor beef jerky in there in a little pouch sometimes.
Janine (as Eddy): Was it ever in there with the— the pants you're wearing, did you ever have the lottery ticket in the pocket and then also jerky [Nathaniel: Well.] in the same pocket before washing?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't wash jeans, but yeah, so, yeah.
Janine (as Eddy): Okay. You, like, freeze ‘em? You do freezer stuff? Or just no?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, I do freezer stuff.
Janine (as Eddy): Okay. Cool. That’s cool.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Janine (as Eddy): It’s better for ‘em, you know.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Janine: Bro fist.
Janine (as Eddy): Okay, so—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh, white gold. [Ali snorts]
Janine (as Eddy): [confused noise] Yeah, I don't know. All right, I'll be back in a second.
Janine: And Eddy gets up, and he walks around, I think behind one of those, like, bars with all the bean salads.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: And pasta salads. And pulls the lottery ticket out and gives it a sniff.
Keith: The mayo bar. Sorry.
Janine: Yeah, the mayo bar. And I think the ticket— I mean, I guess the ticket would have to smell a little bit like beef, right?
Keith: Yeah. Sure would. [Ali and Keith laugh]
Janine: Eddy heads back. 
(as Eddy): All right, listen, man. I don't…I don't know what to do about this one? It’s not a great situation. You know I got a little bit of, uh…baggage with Maddie.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Janine (as Eddy): Little bit, like, a lot of baggage with Maddie.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Right. Like a…
Janine (as Eddy): Ehhh, she doesn't like me. I think she’s fine. She doesn't like me though.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Like a place that sells baggage amount of baggage.
Janine (as Eddy): Yeah. Yeah. Like a plane. Like the guts of a plane.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You say with Maddie, you could have just stopped there. You just have baggage.
Janine (as Eddy): Whoa. You don't know my life.
Keith (as Nathaniel): That’s part of the baggage…
Janine (as Eddy): What? Mm…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Is that I do.
Janine (as Eddy): You— whatever. Listen. You didn't hear this from me, and I don't know how to resolve this. This might have to be a thing between you two. I don't— hands off from me, you know what I mean? I think Maddie might have had your ticket? And I couldn't cash it in, because the machine’s all fucked up, which by the way, I got eyes on you if that was you, 'cause that’s not cool.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't touch that stuff. They don't let me near it.
Janine (as Eddy): I— you got free time as much as anyone else. I don't know what you get up to. I don't know what kind of deals you got going on with Steve, the night guy. [Ali laughs quietly] Listen. You sort it out with Maddie.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay.
Janine (as Eddy): You let me know what you come to, agreement-wise.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Wait, so you have my ticket.
Janine (as Eddy): I'm not saying nothing about that. I'm just saying…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Is that it?
Janine (as Eddy): You gotta talk to Maddie and sort some stuff out. I don't want to be the middleman here. I don't want to be caught in the crossfire, you know? I'm just— I don't even want to mediate. I'm just like a neutral third party, you know?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Look, this is…you’re in the middle.
Janine (as Eddy): But I'm taking a step back. I'm off the field. There’s like a line on the grass, and I'm behind the line on the grass.
Keith (as Nathaniel): If you have a lottery ticket that smells like beef… [laughs quietly] 
Janine (as Eddy): I didn't say I did. Did I say I did? I didn't say I did.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [laughs] You really are— you're heavily implying that you did.
Janine (as Eddy): I don't fucking— I don't have shit to say to you about that. I'm pleading [uncertainly] the fifth.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay. I'll talk to Maddie, and don't worry about that mark stuff.
Janine (as Eddy): Who?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Good.
Janine (as Eddy): What?
Keith (as Nathaniel): There you go.
Janine (as Eddy): Who the fuck’s Mark?
Keith (as Nathaniel): That’s all I'm asking.
Janine (as Eddy): Okay.
Janine: I'm taking another token, because I did a scene with someone else’s plot.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: Oh, great.
Janine: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Ali: Gaming.
Janine: Gaming!
Keith: Does this scene have to have a roll, or can this just be a scene?
Janine: I think it can just be a scene.
Keith: Okay.
Janine: Is my understanding, but I might be wrong. Please correct me if so.
Ali: Well, I…I guess we can naturally decide that a scene is over, but it sort of…it does the Fiasco thing, right? Where it’s like, find a place where there’s a conflict in the scene, and then roll for it, and then the scene ends.
Janine: Mm.
Keith: I think that the conflict is that you're choosing not to give me the lottery ticket that I want, so I think you’ve gotta roll to not give me the ticket.
Janine: So, there is a thing…let’s see. “It’s easy to overlook small, low-stakes actions that should trigger dice rolls, but rolling dice often will help you earn tokens. The action doesn't have to be earth-shattering. If it isn't guaranteed to work or either a success or failure will change something in the story, it’s worth rolling.” Okay. Hmm. [sighs] I'm so torn, actually, [Ali laughs quietly] on what the actual roll here should be, because I don't want to close this off too quickly?
Keith: Right. I've got something. I can—
Janine: I think that’s not super interesting.
Keith: I think I can change it a little bit, which is I've already noticed this watch. Maybe you give me Maddie’s collateral. [Ali snorts]
Sylvia: Oh my god. [Ali sighs]
Janine: Wow.
Keith: And that’s what the roll is, is for you to give me the collateral, so that now I'm the one that has the watch.
Janine: Right. I like that. That’s good. I don't know if this is social. I guess it kind of is, but it also kind of feels like two gorillas squaring up, in a way. [Ali and Keith laugh] We're the only two characters on the Jock spectrum, so.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: I…I also do feel like this could potentially come to blows. I don't know, though. Again, I'll hear out anyone who thinks it should be rolled some other way.
Keith: No, I don't think…I think that I feel like Jock is sort of fine.
Janine: It feels like such a, like, chests…
Sylvia: There’s a lot of posturing going on, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah, it’s a very, like, chests puffed out kind of, like, conversation.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Like, they think they're being kind of, like— 
Keith: I'm chill. I'm fine. [Ali laughs]
Janine: —subtle and, like, cool about it, but like, it is…I feel like it is, like, a…I don't know. It has that energy to me. That’s all I can— that’s the only way I can explain it. Okay. 10.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: Ooh.
Ali: When you act against another PC, 10 or higher: You decide what happens, unless the target gives you a token to change the result to a 7-to-9. [Keith whistles, impressed]
Janine: What do you think, Keith?
Keith: Uh…
Janine: Do you want to give me a token to change it to 7-to-9?
Keith: No, I'm gonna keep my token, and I'm gonna get my lottery ticket back some other way.
Ali: Whoa.
Janine: All right.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't want your watch. Too small.
Janine (as Eddy): Yeah, it’s real tight.
Sylvia: [mocking] I didn't even want your stupid tiny watch.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't want your stupid tiny watch.
Janine (as Eddy): My hair keeps getting caught in the little links. It’s all…yeah, I don't…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Janine (as Eddy): I don't want to lose it though, you know? Anyway, yeah, you get back to me. Text me or whatever.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Sure.
Keith’s Scene [2:49:45]
Keith: All right. My turn.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Um…hmm. I think that…I’m gonna immediately— I'm gonna follow up on this with Maddie now, because we're at work.
Janine: 1000 bucks would certainly help you with a ritual.
Keith: 1000 bucks would certainly help me with a ritual, and I feel like I'm at work. I just did a scene where I was getting to work, so I shouldn't leave work immediately to go deliver a Goku car. [Ali and Janine laugh] So, I'm headed over to, uh…I guess— or maybe you're at— do you hang out at the customer service thing where you can go if you have a couple items but really you're supposed to not go there to check out?
Ali: Oh, that makes sense.
Keith: Is that where keyholder hangs out?
Ali: Yeah. I bet that makes sense, because I would be the person, like, giving change to other cashiers and stuff, and yeah.
Keith: Yeah. I'm sure you do shifts on the register.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: But. Or on the real register, but.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [awkwardly] Uh…Maddie.
Ali (as Maddie): Nate.
Keith (as Nathaniel): How’s it going?
Ali (as Maddie): It’s going. Did you watch The Office last night?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh, no, my mind’s been elsewhere.
Ali (as Maddie): Wait. Oh, your mind. [chuckles] Yeah, it was hilarious. What do you need?
Keith (as Nathaniel): That’s awesome. [Ali laughs quietly] How’s your luck been?
Ali (as Maddie): My luck. Pretty bad, actually.
Keith (as Nathaniel): That’s so funny, because I was talking to Eddy, [Maddie sighs] and Eddy said that you won big.
Janine: You didn't have to rat me out, you motherfucker. [Ali laughs quietly]
Ali (as Maddie): Eddy told you that I won big?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, Eddy told me that you won big. You won $1000. Isn't that crazy?
Ali (as Maddie): [quiet frustrated laugh] Oh my god. I didn't win $1000.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh, you didn't win $1000, but you had a $1000 lottery ticket.
Ali (as Maddie): Yeah, because…
Keith (as Nathaniel): How does that happen? How do you win $1000—
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] 
Keith (as Nathaniel): How do you not win $1000 but have a $1000 lottery ticket?
Ali (as Maddie): Because I found a midcentury TV stand at an estate sale, [Nathaniel: Uh huh.] and then I refurbished it, and then I sold it on Facebook Marketplace, and this person texted me over and over again, “I'm coming through. I have your money. Reserve it for me,” and then they came through, and then they didn't even have cash, and it was such a headache, and I wanted the fucking TV stand out of my garage, so I took a lottery ticket. Does that sound like winning to you?
Keith (as Nathaniel): What it sounds like is I won a $1000 lottery ticket and didn't cash one in, and you didn't win a $1000 lottery ticket but did cash one in. That’s what it sounds like to me.
Ali (as Maddie): [frustrated sigh] There’s a lot of lottery tickets in this town.
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, there is not!
Ali (as Maddie): There literally is. What are you talking about?
Keith (as Nathaniel): You're saying we won— there’s multiple— there’s two plus $1000 lottery winners running around?
Ali (as Maddie): Yes.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I full— I just do not believe you.
Ali (as Maddie): [laughs] Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I just don't believe that.
Ali (as Maddie): Do you want to see the texts that I had with this person on Facebook Marketplace? It’s all right here. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Fine.
Ali (as Maddie): Look at this. I sanded it down, and then I applied a nice beige coat of paint, and I changed the knobs, and I sold it for $1000.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I think it looked— I think you painted over a really nice dresser. 
Ali (as Maddie): Jesus christ. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): What?
Ali (as Maddie): You're like all the fucking people in my fucking Instagram comments. It’s what people like! Beige is in now, okay?
Sylvia: [quietly] Oh my god.
Ali (as Maddie): Why did you come here?
Keith (as Nathaniel): The wood was beige. It started beige! [Ali laughs quietly]
Ali (as Maddie): [clears throat frustratedly]
Janine: This is inspired. I just… [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. Both these characters are incredible.
Janine: But I do just want to say: wow. Wow. 
Sylvia: Like, I gotta step it up.
Janine: Yeah. It’s so real, you know? It’s just like real life. [Ali continues laughing]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Why are you showing me pictures of the dresser and not the conversation?
Ali (as Maddie): I thought you would be nice about it. Anyway, yeah, see? It’s Denise, who I think might be in league with your boy Eddy, if you're listening to Eddy and Eddy’s running around talking about lottery tickets.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Was your— you— it was your ticket. I mean, you brought the ticket.
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] Oh, jesus. Yeah, it is my ticket, because it was given to me as a transaction for a service that I did.
[pause]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh—
Ali (as Maddie): Yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay. How do I get— how do I get in contact with Denise?
Ali (as Maddie): There is an open—
Keith (as Nathaniel): By the way, it’s— sorry, no, go.
Ali (as Maddie): You can text. You want to take my phone?
[pause]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Sure. You mean, like, as collateral?
Ali (as Maddie): No! I'm— oh my god, jesus christ. Okay, I'll text them for you. Hello, I have a question.
Keith (as Nathaniel): To me?
Ali (as Maddie): [annoyed sound]
Janine: Oh, I forgot I was Denise. [Ali laughs]
Ali: Should I roll to see if Denise responds? What are we doing with Denise here? Do you want to step in as Denise and then…?
Janine: That’s a great question. Let’s figure out. I will play Denise in whatever capacity we want her played.
Ali: Okay. When you play against the environment, a secondary player character, the laws of physics, or anything but another PC. 
(as Maddie): Okay, okay, they’re typing. What do you want me to ask? What do I have to do with this?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't know. I don't even know what I have to do with it. I don't know Denise.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh my god. What are you here for? What do you want from me?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Let me talk— let me call. Let me call.
Ali (as Maddie): Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Let me call.
Ali (as Maddie): Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Put it on speaker.
Ali (as Maddie): Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You call and then put it on speaker.
Ali (as Maddie): Okay. Okay. Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [to customer] Hi. Hi, sorry, we'll be right with you. [Ali and Janine chuckle]
Ali: Brrring. Brrring.
Janine (as Denise): Denise Villereal speaking.
Ali (as Maddie): Hi. It’s Maddie. You know, from Facebook?
Janine (as Denise): No. Who?
Ali (as Maddie): It’s Maddie. I sold you a midcentury TV stand through Facebook Marketplace.
Janine (as Denise): Oh, right, that little beige table. Uh huh.
Ali (as Maddie): The little— yeah, the table. [awkward quiet laugh] Hi. I, um—
Janine (as Denise): It’s such a nice table. I, like, put a little pad, like a pillow but like a flat pillow, and I let my cats go on there, because they like to be by my desk. They like to come up on my desk, but they shouldn't be on the desk, so I had the little table thing for them with the—
Ali: I'm just… [laughs quietly] I'm staring.
Janine (as Denise): [gushing] And then they can come up and sit, and then they can be close to me, which they seem to really like.
Keith (as cat): Mrow. [Ali and Sylvia laugh]
Sylvia: It’s in the background.
Janine (as Denise): Say hi to Maddie! Say hi to Maddie.
Keith (as cat): Mrow!
Ali (as Maddie): Hi. [Janine laughs quietly] I was—
Janine (as Denise): They say thank you. Say, “Thank you, Maddie.”
Sylvia: It’s barfing now. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Keith (as cat): [retching]
Janine: Jerma cat vomiting sound. Yep.
Ali: [pained] Ohhh.
(as Maddie): [whispering] What do you want me to say?
Keith (as Nathaniel): [whispering] Ask about the lottery ticket.
Janine (as Denise): Anyway, is that everything, Maddie?
Ali (as Maddie): Well, I just wanted to check with you about the lottery ticket that you gave me?
Janine (as Denise): Mm-hmm.
Ali (as Maddie): Well, I just…I had some trouble, uh, exchanging it for cash, you know, for money that you pay people for stuff, and—
Janine (as Denise): Oh dear.
Ali (as Maddie): Yeah. And—
Janine (as Denise): Why? It seemed— I thought it was a real ticket.
Ali (as Maddie): You thought it was a real ticket. 
Janine (as Denise): Well, yeah.
Ali (as Maddie): Where did you buy it from?
Janine (as Denise): Well, it was just stuck to the bottom of my purse when I got home the other day.
Ali (as Maddie): It was stuck to—
Janine (as Denise): And then I was like, “Oh, wow, it’s a winning ticket.” What a lucky— so lucky, you know? I've been so lucky recently. I just thought it was more luck. Maybe it was a fake ticket? But then why would they just leave it somewhere?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, it’s a real ticket, and it’s my real ticket!
Janine (as Denise): Who’s that? [Ali laughs quietly] Who are— Maddie? Who’s there with you?
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] 
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s fine. Say it.
Ali (as Maddie): Um, this is my friend Nate, who, funny enough, seems to have misplaced a lottery ticket recently.
Janine (as Denise): [thoughtfully] Nate. Why do I know that name Nate? Nate. Oh, is that that little Munth boy? Mini Munth, we used to call him? Is that him? What’s he up to? How are you doing, Nate? I haven't talked to you in so long.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't know who you are. Yes, that is me. That’s weird.
Janine (as Denise): Remember that Halloween where you came by and you had the little cat ears on and the apron? You didn't know what you were, but you were having so much fun.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Chef Cat. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Janine (as Denise): Right, Chef Cat. That was so good. [cross] Anyway, if that’s everything, I…
Keith (as Nathaniel): [cross] Uh, I don't— yeah, I don't know how you got my ticket, but it’s my ticket, and everything’s bad, because I need that money.
Janine (as Denise): Well, I don't know what to tell you. It was just stuck on the bottom of my purse.
Keith (as Nathaniel): From where?
Janine (as Denise): Are you sure it’s the same ticket? I don't know, I got— 
Keith (as Nathaniel): [cross] Okay, did you happen to—
Janine (as Denise): [cross] I was running some errands, and I came home.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Did you happen to smell the ticket at all?
Ali (as Maddie): [quietly, exasperated] Oh my god.
Janine (as Denise): Why would I smell a lottery ticket, Nate? That doesn't make any sense, honey.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't know why you would or wouldn't, but I thought maybe we could do, like, a “three, two, one” and say what it smelled like at the same time.
Janine (as Denise): Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): But if you—
Janine (as Denise): If that would make you feel better.
Keith (as Nathaniel): But do you know— okay. [Ali laughs] We'll do it. But if this doesn't work, I don't want it to reflect poorly on me.
Janine (as Denise): Mm-hmm?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Because it seems like maybe you didn't smell it, so…but okay.
Janine (as Denise): Whatever it takes.
Keith (as Nathaniel): All right.
Janine (as Denise): Whatever makes you feel better.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Three, two, one. Beef.
Janine (as Denise): Cat food.
Keith (as Nathaniel): What? You didn't say until after I said! [Ali laughs] We were supposed to do it at— though I will say: cat food is pretty close to beef.
Janine (as Denise): I don't know. I don't know what they put in that stuff.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Beef jerky. They put— I'll tell you what they put in it. They put beef in it.
Janine (as Denise): I get the one that’s called Little Babies, and they don't really tell you the ingredients.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s beef. They put beef in it. Beef and chicken.
Janine (as Denise): They just say it’s Little Babies, and my cats are little babies.
Sylvia: Ohh. [Ali laughs quietly]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Every cat is a little baby. It’s not your cats.
Janine (as Denise): I don't know why you're being so short with me.
Sylvia: That was me trying to do a fucked up cat noise. [Ali laughs]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I'm being short because you have my $1000 and then gave it to Maddie who’s trying to give it to— who’s trying to cash it in.
Janine (as Denise): I gave it to Maddie, 'cause I didn't want to have to go all the way back to the store to cash it, and a TV stand, price was about the same, and it just made sense.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You really got $1000 for that?
Ali (as Maddie): [quietly] Shut the fuck up. [laughs quietly] 
Keith (as Nathaniel): I'm just saying, what are you doing here? [Ali and Janine laugh quietly]
Ali (as Maddie): $1000 isn't my rent, idiot.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Make two tables.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh my fucking god.
Ali: Keith, what are you rolling against here? 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Where did you— [Ali laughs] Where were you when you found— or where did you come from? Where should I go…? [Ali laughs] Why was it on your purse?
Janine (as Denise): I don't know, honey, where you should go. That’s a thing that you need to figure out for yourself.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [frustrated] That's what I'm in the middle of doing!
Janine (as Denise): Have you tried calling your mom? I know your mom, she’s so sad that you don't call her more. She’s always telling me.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't know you, lady! What are you talking about me?!
Janine (as Denise): Your mom, Muriel. Munth.
Sylvia: Muriel Munth?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. People call her Mmmunth. [Ali laughs quietly]
Janine (as Denise): We play Bingo together, down at the…farmers’ market slash Bingo hall.
Keith: I thought you were going to say dump. [laughs]
Sylvia: Oh. Down at the Bingo Market. [Janine laughs]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay. Please tell me where you were when you— before you found the thing, the lottery ticket on your purse. Could you do that?
Janine (as Denise): Well, I went to the Y. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I got all my stuff together. I went out. I had to take, um…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Sorry, the Y as in the YMCA or Why as in the quiz place?
Janine (as Denise): The YMCA.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay.
Janine (as Denise): I had to take, um, Grover to the vet, 'cause he’s got, like, a weird toe. I don't know what’s going on there. Cats, you know? I think he jammed his toe when he was jumping off something. So I took Grover to the vet, and I had to leave him there for a bit, 'cause they were gonna do some, like, tooth stuff, and they gotta put him under for that. And then, gosh, where did I…? Then I went to the Y, and then I was at the Y for a bit—
Keith (as Nathaniel): The Y as in the YMCA or the—?
Janine (as Denise): The YMCA, uh huh.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay.
Janine (as Denise): I was at the YMCA. They let women in there now, which is nice. And then they, uh…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Welcome to 1975? [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Janine (as Denise): And then, uh, let’s see. After the Y, gosh. Oh, I went to lunch with my girlfriends, and you know, we just, like, chattered around for a bit, had a little post-workout mimosa, you know? [Sylvia laughs quietly] And then, gosh, I guess, like, post office, groceries, that kind of thing. Just, like, the usual weekly kind of little outing for little old Denise, you know?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Did you say groceries at the end?
Janine (as Denise): I don't know, sure. Probably. I always do when I'm out.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Probably? That’s the—
Janine (as Denise): Yeah. Well, you know, I just go mostly to have a nice little walk around the store, say hi to the checkout girls.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [baffled] You go to the grocery store to say hi to the checkout girls?
Janine (as Denise): And get some milk and eggs, you know, cat food.
Keith (as Nathaniel): And you're saying that—
Janine (as Denise): Toothpaste, vaseline. Yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You did— you did or you probably did go to the grocery store?
Janine (as Denise): Probably. Like I said, I go to the— I'm there all the time. I don't know why you think you don't know me. I see you all the time.
Keith: I would love to make this roll. [Ali and Janine laugh] To go—
Ali: What are you rolling against?
Janine: You can make this roll whenever you want.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: What’s the purpose of the roll?
Keith: Very normal guitar teacher. [Keith, Janine, and Ali laugh]
Sylvia: Maybe she’s a vampire, bro.
Keith: Maybe she’s a vampire, yeah. She is in— she’s in the 70s with her YMCA knowledge.
Sylvia: Makes sense.
Janine: It’s classical guitar, so like, you know.
Keith: Oh, okay. Eddy’s taking classical guitar.
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: Oh, it is secret.
Janine: What do you want to roll? What…? 
Keith: Uh, so, this is the— I just want to see what the things are for this. Players can suggest a complication on a 7-to-9, and I choose one or more of the suggestions, or on a 6 or lower, the player who’s least involved in the scene decides how your action made the situation worse. Okay. And obviously, a success is still a success. So, it’s roll 2d6, and this is— what do we think this is?
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Keith: Right? It doesn't feel— it has this—
Janine: Huh.
Keith: I have the same energy as I did when we rolled Jock a second ago.
Sylvia: There’s…
Keith: But it doesn't not seem like Prep.
Janine: Okay, so—
Sylvia: I was gonna say Prep.
Keith: ‘Cause it’s social.
Janine: Okay, controversial take.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: I think convincing Denise as a person involves a lot of Goth.
Sylvia: Okay. [Ali laughs]
Janine: For creative solutions.
Keith: Okay.
Janine: I don't think Denise is Goth. I think she’s hippie.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: But in this situation, Goth and Hippie are right there.
Ali: Mm.
Keith: Sure. 
Sylvia: It is—
Keith: I mean, that’s the same as Prep, so I don't…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I don't mind, ‘cause I'm a 0 in both.
Sylvia: Yeah, I guess it is.
Keith: All right. I'm gonna roll that. I'm gonna roll 2d6. That’s a 9.
Janine: That’s a 9.
Keith: So, other players can each suggest a complication.
Sylvia: Ooh.
Keith: But I succeed, and then I choose one or more of their suggestions and use it in the outcome.
Ali: What’s…
Keith: Oh, sorry, I should clarify that what I'm looking for from the roll [Janine: Mm-hmm?] is to know the exact thing that, uh…
Janine: Resulted in her having the ticket.
Keith: That Denise was doing that resulted in— yeah, exactly.
Ali: Oh, okay, okay, okay, okay. Um…hmm.
Sylvia: Do we want to make this be, like, an even longer game of telephone, where someone gave it to her? [Keith and Ali laugh] Like, someone paid for classes with it? Like, is this a thing that we want to do? Like, that’s just one option.
Keith: I think we're married to it not being a lie that…
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: That she just found it on the purse.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: Although…although maybe I'm just…
Sylvia: No, that’s fine.
Keith: Maybe I've just believed a lie, because it is $1000. It is something someone would lie about.
Janine: I feel like if you're gonna lie about $1000, you wouldn't give that $1000 ticket to someone for a TV stand. [Ali snorts]
Keith: Sure. Any other potential complications?
Janine: Uh…complications…hmm…
Ali: Oh, what…what if it’s like a, “I got mimosas with Mrs. Cunningham. Just ask her.” [Keith laughs]
Janine: Oh.
Sylvia: Oh. That’s great.
Ali: Or introducing Brendan or somebody too.
Janine: I love that. [Ali laughs] I was really struggling with something to suggest, but I love the idea that, like, maybe Mrs. Cunningham, like, went on her errands with her and has a better memory or something.
Keith: Okay.
Janine: So she’s like…
Ali: Oh, I bet she has a great memory with being a vampire.
Keith: She’s got a great memory.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Ali laughs]
Keith: A mind like a steel trap.
Janine (as Denise): Well, honey, I don't— you know. Sweetheart, I don't remember.
Keith: She has a mind and a jaw like a steel trap. [Ali laughs]
Janine (as Denise): I don't remember every little thing, but you know, after mimosas, me and Mrs. Cunningham, we decided to run some errands together. I bet she would know every single— she has one of those— she has that thing that tracks where you are and stuff, so.
Janine: She’s playing Ingress. I don't know. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Wait, did you say that Mrs. Cunningham was drinking a mimosa?
Janine (as Denise): Yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay.
Janine (as Denise): We were all drinking mimosas. That’s why you go out for mimosas. You're so young. You don't know. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): I know about mimosas! [Ali laughs quietly]
Janine (as Denise): You'll understand when you're older. Ask your mom. [cross] Say, why don't you give Mrs. Cunningham a call?
Keith (as Nathaniel): [cross] [sarcastic] Yeah, it takes a 45-year-old woman to know about orange juice and champaign. 
Janine (as Denise): [laughs] You don't have to be short with me. Just call up Mrs. Cunningham. You can ask her. Tell her I sent you to her. And then after that, why don't you call your mother? Huh?
Keith: Nathaniel’s turning white, ghostly white.
Janine (as Denise): Give her something to talk about at Bingo other than the porch, you know? [Ali laughs]
Keith (as Nathaniel): [quietly] She won't shut up about the porch.
Janine (as Denise): That porch needs work. She keeps telling us the porch needs work.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It does need work. It needs work badly.
Janine (as Denise): Why don't you go to your mom’s house and help her with the porch?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I can't— I'm not qualified to help with the— okay. [Ali laughs quietly] I have to go. Thank you very much for your help.
Janine (as Denise): All right.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Denise Villereal.
Janine (as Denise): All right, you take care.
Ali (as Maddie): Bye!
Sylvia: [laughs] I forgot Maddie was there for a minute! [Ali and Janine laugh]
Keith (as Nathaniel): You could’ve stepped in.
Ali (as Maddie): How?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don't know! She was clearly not responding to me!
Ali (as Maddie): Oh, she was responding. That was a whole conversation, buddy. [Janine laughs]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I mean, that’s the problem. I mean, yes. I think maybe we just didn't— we weren't connecting.
Ali (as Maddie): It’s not her fault you fucking lost your shit, man.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I didn't lose my shit. I had it.
Ali (as Maddie): Uh huh. And then what do you do before you lose something?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I had it. I didn't lose it.
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] Jesus christ.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Bye. Your watch looks great on Eddy. 
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] Ma’am, I would love to return those grapes for you now.
Sylvia (as customer): About time! [Ali laughs] He’s a rude one, huh?
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] 
Sylvia (as customer): The old lady!
Ali (as Maddie): I know. I know. I'm very sorry. 
Ali: And that’s a round of scenes.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Ali laughs] 
Janine: Hooray.
Ali: Hooray. We did it. That took about an hour, which is what I expected. [laughs] 
Sylvia: This game rules.
Janine: It’s great, yeah.
Sylvia: This is so much fun.
Ali: We're having a great time. We're all good at this.
Janine: I think it does a much better job than Fiasco at, like, making sure you have the soap opera connections you want to have.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: It feels like you're a little more actively interwoven right out of the gate.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: And incentivizing doing other people’s business [Ali laughs] in your stuff is a good idea.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Yeah, I don't— I obviously don't know Ethan’s actual inspirations here, and I don't want to keep making an unfair comparison, but as somebody who was thinking that they were gonna play Fiasco and then chose this game instead, there’s a lot of things that I prefer about it in some of these specific ways. But this was really fun. I think that we've decided that we're going to pause here and then come back on Tuesday?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Not tomorrow. Not— today’s Tuesday.
Sylvia: No, not— sorry.
Janine: Yeah, I was gonna say. Yeah, wait. 
Ali: [laughs] Next Tuesday.
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Janine: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Tuesday the fifth, March 5. It’ll be March next Tuesday, and we'll be back on Tuesday, March 5.
Keith: It’ll be March next Tuesday, and we'll be back on Tuesday, March 5.
Ali: [laughs] So, thank you, everybody, for joining us. Congratulations to whoever won the Fourthwall giveaway thingy.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Oh, yeah. Sure.
Ali: And, uh…
Janine: I was gonna scroll up and see, but I don't think I can do that.
Ali: It gets cut off, yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah. But that was a great time. Shoutouts. But yeah, thank you for joining us. New Clapcast went on the feed this morning. Apparently the best yet [stumbling] my…me…Media Club Plus episode was released [Janine laughs] last Wednesday night. Go listen to that, if you haven't.
Janine: Mime Meeting Club Plus, the new podcast that we're doing. [cross] [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: It’s silent.
Ali: I'm reawy sweepy. I'm reawy sweepy. [laughs] 
Keith: Talk about the best meetings we've had. [Ali, Keith, and Janine laugh]
Ali: PALISADE is going to return this week, finally. Slow Knife tomorrow. I said that it would be today, and I lied about that, and it’s gonna be tomorrow. I actually said it would be Sunday, and I still lied about that. Anyway.
Sylvia: Eh, it’s fine. It’s coming.
Ali: It’s coming.
Keith: Oh, released, right.
Ali: Yes.
Keith: I'm like, recording— no, we're recording that next week.
Ali: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Released. That’s what the people listening to this care about. 
Ali: [laughs] Uh huh. And yeah, that’s your Friends at the Table news update for tonight.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Thank you so much for joining us, everybody. Any other plugs?
Keith: You’re welcome. [Ali laughs]
Janine: If folks missed Jack’s stream earlier of Final Fantasy VII, that happened, right?
Ali: Oh, yes, it did.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: That happened and was real?
Sylvia: Yeah. I was there.
Janine: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah! You can check that out in the Twitch archives. You can pop there after this, even. I think there’s also an intention for Jack to stream some other stuff. I was gonna say scream. Scream some other stuff this week. [Ali laughs] But I'm not gonna make any promises on their behalf. I also might stream something this week, but I'm not gonna make any promises on my behalf. [laughs quietly] 
Ali: Okay. Perhaps a question mark Friday.
Janine: Question mark Friday. That’s everyone’s favorite… [Ali and Keith laugh]
Ali: You know, I don't want to say what it is, in case that’s not what it is, but…
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Keith: If you've missed anything over the last month of Twitch stuff, pretty much everything up until the second Balatro stream is up on the YouTube. The first Balatro stream, the cine2nerdle stream, the Hieron music demos et cetera stream, Crusader Kings III, and then the Fae Farm stream are all up on the YouTube.
Janine: I love Frisbe. 
Ali: Shoutouts. I imagine this will be up, at some point. I'm gonna be honest with you: I forgot what we said that we would do about this. I know MP3s are going to go somewhere eventually.
Keith: For what?
Ali: For this.
Keith: Oh, for this.
Ali: Yeah. But this— you know, it won't be gone into the ether, I promise. And yeah, have a good night, everybody.
Keith: Bye.
Sylvia: Good night.
Ali: Bye!
Janine: Bye!
Sylvia: Watch out for vampires. [quiet laughter]