Live at the Table 44: April 2021 - Thousand Year Old Vampire
Transcriber: vesta #5711


[00:01:34]


JANINE: Hey everybody. I'm just checking my settings and making sure everything is okay for
this um, stream that I'm about to- 


Oh I bet you can actually hear that on my speakers. But I wanted to make sure there was no echo from my computer audio. [soft echo plays] That doesn’t count. That one doesn’t count. But it seems like it’s working. Okay! We’ll start shortly when people show up, I hope you enjoy!


[long pause]


[00:07:01]


[Music begins: “An End to Partings” by Jack de Quidt]


[music ends]


[00:08:48]


JANINE: Welcome to Live at the Table! This is another not-quite-Live at the Table, this is another pre-recorded one, which is rapidly becoming my MO I guess. [chuckles] Because it’s a lot lower pressure. Unless you do- yeah I mean the real reason is like it lets you do some fun stuff. 


I'm Janine Hawkins, I'm gonna be- I don't wanna say facilitating or jamming, because this is technically a solo game. But I didn't wanna play it solo, [chuckles] so I'll be the
book writer?


ALI: Mhm. 


JANINE: And I'm joined today by Ali Acampora.


ALI: Hi! I'm here for-


JANINE: What's your, what’s your- who are you? What’s your-?


ALI: I'm Ali Acampora, you can find me at Ali overscore-wuh! @ali_west on Twitter.


JANINE: Overscore, that’s a power version of it. 


ALI: Uh huh. I'm here for moral support,


JANINE: Yeah!


ALI: And journaling assistance. [chuckles]


JANINE: Mhm! You’re like! You are, I think the only other person on the podcast I can talk to at like pen shit? [Ali laughs] So. 


ALI: Happy to be here.


JANINE: Yeah. It’s- you’ll, you know, my pen nerd- my pen nerd thing is reusing ink for this game. 


ALI: Ooh!


JANINE: Very important. Using the Monteverde Mercury Noir. 


ALI: Oh!


JANINE: I'm really into off blacks lately, so like, very dark reds, very dark violets. Sepia, like deep sepia tones. And Mercury Noir is great because it's, it's just it's like gory, it's awful.


ALI: [laughs] Oh my-!


JANINE: [chuckles] It's like, it actually looks kind of purple on this- on the paper but it's, it's a good ink. So-


ALI: That is a fun detail, that would really-


JANINE: Yeah!


ALI: -show the character of that ink.


JANINE: [laughs] Uh huh! So we're going to be playing Thousand Year Old Vampire, which is a game by Tim Hutchings. I believe Tim actually is in the process- was about to release like a weird mysterious add-on for Thousand Year Old Vampire. I don't know what's in it. He specifically said it's not like an add-on or expansion, or- he's like ruled out everything it could
possibly be, so I don't know what the hell it is. But it's something and it's related to this game. And I'm very curious to see what it is, because this book is so nice. I'm so happy I bought this, 


ALI: It’s so pretty.


JANINE: I think it's one of my favorite things I own. It's just very, it's so cool- it's so well done, it's so neat. So I'm excited to get into this. For disclosure, I’ve done sort of a partial game of this before on my own. I only used the prompts in the appendices? There's a whole- there's a whole
section in the back where there's like, well one there's like number tables if you don't have dice with you.


ALI: Ooh.


JANINE: There's like Q&A stuff, and there's also a section that is uh, alternate prompts that are sort of friend and fan made. That's my bookmark from where I was before, I don't need that now. [Ali giggles]. So they're basically like if you've played the game several times before, and
you want something new you can go to these. 


Some of these are kind of weird, and some of them work better than others, because that's the sort of nature of like, a you know a thing that's kind of pieced together from different people who you know, have different ideas about how they're playing and things like that.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: But it's a- it's a neat addition, and they're sort of broken up by who made them and stuff. 


ALI: And just-


JANINE: It’s really neat.


ALI: To go over like what's the core system here?


JANINE: So the core- the core thing we'll sort of go over some rules briefly, like, because we're gonna be playing- there's two kinds of games you can play. You can play a long game which is like, it can take you a very long time if you're writing out full journal entries and stuff.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: And you can do a quick game which we’ll be doing, basically a quick game where you instead of writing a full entry just write like a line or two about your thing. But basically the premise of the game, is that you're a vampire. You sort of start out close to your creation with sort of a basic setup in terms of like, people you know and the world and things like that. 


ALI: Mhm.
 
JANINE: And then you roll dice to determine how you you know which prompt you get. And then you sort of build on that, and each prompt, each prompt will- some prompts will just say like, you know here's the thing that happens. Some of those some of them will say, check a skill, create a skill, create a resource, things like that. 


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: And basically the game is over once you have used up all of your usable, um things, like basically if it asks you to check a skill, but all your skills are checked and there's no sort of other you know. Once you once you run out of shit, basically, you’re toast. So yeah. If I sound a little roomy, it's because I have to not put my microphone directly in front of my face [Ali chuckles] because that's where the book is. And also the camera.


ALI: Uh huh!


JANINE: So. You know. This will be one that I think… I'm not gonna say the audio won't also
be fun? [Ali laughs] But I think the video will probably be the the better value.


ALI: Yeah. Indeed yeah this is a this is a Live at the Table video experience. 


JANINE: Yeah, this is- this is a whole ass thing. Also just, this book is so cool. 


[00:15:00]


ALI: It’s so pretty. 


JANINE: And it's just neat to show this dang book. [Ali chuckles] Okay-


ALI: I love the like little cuttings, that like looks scrapbooky? 


JANINE: Yeah! It looks so scrapbooky, I love this like, it looks like it's written in a marker, and like the cover has these like library things on it and it's great. It’s fantastic. 


Okay, so Thousand Year Old Vampire is a lone- a lonely solo role-playing game in which you chronicle the unlife of a vampire over the many centuries of their existence, beginning with the loss of mortality and ending with their inevitable destruction. This vampire will surprise you as they do things that are unexpected, unpleasant, and sometimes tragic. Making gut-churning decisions, performing irreconcilable acts, and solving- resolving difficult narrative threads are what this game is about as you explore the vampire's human failings, villainous acts and surprising victories.


Game mechanics are simple, intuitive. Play progresses randomly through the prompt section of this book. Answer prompts to learn about your vampire's wants and needs, to learn what challenges they face, and to chart their decline into senescence.  Build up a character record of memories and then lose them to the inexorable crush of time.


ALI: Mmm.


JANINE: See everyone you've loved and hated grow old and die, then turn to dust. So a thing to say about this game actually, is that if you're sensitive to memory loss topics, or like death in that sort of way, this might be a good one to sit out. This game is sort of fundamentally about
losing your memories and sort of coming to peace with that. When I played it it wasn't like, deep sad in that way? But I could see… I could see how it could hit a certain way, you know what I mean? 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Well actually- here we go. While playing this game you will encounter themes of death, selfishness, and predation. Your character may be injured, victimized, trapped, or killed. Your
character will murder and victimize people of all sorts possibly including children, animals, loved ones, marginalized people, or themselves. I mean you have control over all of this, obviously, but you might find yourself exploring themes of imperialism, colonialism, or oppression. 


Characters might engage in self-harm or drug abuse, illness debilitation and body harm
may come into play. Your character may have their memories altered, they will certainly forget important things. Some of this will emerge from the prompt, some will emerge from the choices you make as a player. This is a personal, challenging game for mature adults, please play hard but stay aware of yourself and your feelings. Some good thoughts about safety and solo games can be found in Appendix 3 which is handy, again. Appendices.


Alright, so things we need to play. We've got dice here. 


ALI: Alright.


JANINE: I like the sharp edge kind.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: They look cooler to me. 


ALI: Appropriate for the the vampire situation.


JANINE: Yeah!


ALI: They look kind of smoky.


JANINE: I also have this like, [Ali giggles] there's a name for these? This isn't one of them though, this actually- you can see it says USB on it? This is the lid of a thing I used to keep USB sticks in [Ali laughs, Janine chuckles]. But. 


ALI: Love a good tray.

JANINE: It's really nice and white and clean looking, and just fits, it just looks great. So, [chuckles] I didn't want the dice rolling all over. Because when I was play testing this before, I kept- I would throw the dice on the book, and then they wouldn't really roll so much as slide? 


ALI: Yeah 


JANINE: And it was just not- it was not ideal.


ALI: This is very organized, it's neat.


JANINE: Yeah! [Ali giggles] Alright, so we've also got- you know it's a journaling game so we've got
paper, we've got a pen, in a little little stand so I can grab it real quick. Alright.


So, your vampire. The vampire whose chronicle you will record in this game is represented by five traits. Memories, Skills, Resources, Characters, and Marks. Almost every time you receive a prompt one of your traits will be modified. For instance, you may be instructed to check a Skill. To do so you place a checkmark next to that Skill which represents that you've used the Skill. 


Alternately the prompt may cause you to lose a trait which is indicated by striking out with a line. Ensure the last trait stays readable because you might be able to restore it later. [short pause] So, Memories and Experiences are important moments that have shaped your vampire crystallized in writing. They make up the core of the vampire self, the things they know and care about. An Experience is a particular event, a Memory is an arc of Experiences that are tied together by subject or theme.


So you can have I believe it's… five…experiences under a memory? And once the memory is full you have to basically cross it out. And like once once that memory is full and once you have the maximum number of memories you can have, you have to basically scrap a memory and start a fresh one.


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: Or even if it's not full, if you have a new Experience and it doesn't fit under an existing Memory, then you have to create a new Memory to contain it-


ALI: Oh right right right.


JANINE: And potentially strike off a Memory- yeah you have space for five Memories- oh three Experiences, five Memories. Okay, I was thinking it was the other way around but it's fine. An Experience should be a single evocative sentence and experiences the distillation of an event. A single sentence that combines what happened and why it matters to your vampire. A good format for an Experience is—description of event, how I feel, or what I did about it. 


If you're playing a longer game you can make these like whole ass entries, but because we're
doing a short game these will probably just be little like, bits.


ALI: Oh yeah the expectation seems that like, once a week he would sit down and be like, “what is my vampire going through?”


JANINE: Exactly, yeah. You would do a- you know, a prompt a day or something and that's
your like your writing prompt for the day literally was like. You do your 1000 words
on that. [Ali chuckles] This would be a really good tool as a sort of like a writing prompt thing.
Okay. Memories are made up of Experiences, we went over that. I have a little highlighted post-it note—right that's for three Experiences, five Memories—okay it just repeats that, that's good.


If you're also playing a longer game you can you can store Memories in a diary, but I'm not. You can have like multiple diaries, and it's like a sort of- 


ALI: Ohhh. To like protect them? To make them less… 


JANINE: Yeah you're like archiving them basically. 


ALI: Ohh…


JANINE: Like a diary can hold up to four of your vampire’s Memories. We're not going to
worry about this though, because it's a whole lot, basically. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Skills are pretty straightforward, they indicate what your vampire can do, and what they might do. So, swordplay, relaxing, banter, operating heavy machinery. If unchecked Skills are what your vampire is capable of, checked Skills are what they have done. And a crossed off Skill is something you're no longer capable of.


Resources are resources. It's pretty much you know, it's a thing you can use- they don't represent everything that vampire has, but they represent like key things that can
be used. Kind of in a Heart sense right, where like this is a this is it's a sort of currency in a way.


ALI: Oh, sure sure sure.


JANINE: You know, items that are useful, or that they value. So not just every single thing
they own, but something of of import.


Characters are the people with whom your vampire has a relationship. Each character should be named and described in a sentence fragment, such as—Lawrence Hollmueller, descendant of Baron Hollmueller, or Sister Adelpho, a meddlesome nun. You add more descriptors each time you interact with them in the course of resolving a prompt.


ALI: Ooh..!


JANINE: And also there are- you can you know, you can elect to include them if you want, they can be mortal or immortal. Mortals will eventually die off, like if you hit a point where it's like, oh I bet that nun's probably dead because it's been like 200 years, then you can just cross them off.


ALI: Oh, sure sure sure.


JANINE: They're not really expend- yeah die old age. This might happen every four or five prompts. Outside of this characters cannot be killed unless a prop tells you to do so, but you can otherwise narrate about them as you would like.


A mark is a visible indication of your vampire's undying state. So it's you know, you have- I guess vampire teeth would be considered a mark, but also like if you have a cool tattoo, or bat wings or, 


ALI: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.


JANINE:  Hypnotic eyes so you must wear smoked glasses [Ali chuckles]. All that kind of stuff. 


ALI: Yeah vampires are definitely not a one size fits all sort of-


JANINE: No. 


ALI: Situation.


JANINE: So, here we're at vampire creation. And there's playing the game. We'll just flip to that. If you're unable to check or lose a Skill or Resource when you're required to do so, or if a prompt tells you the game is ended, then you're toast.


Two styles of play, that's your quick and journaling game. Answer prompts in a way that feels natural; cede control to the game… you know, this is all a lot of this is stuff that's like- I like that there's this there's this section in terms of you know, don't overthink it, let yourself take risks and
be uncomfortable, etc. [Ali chuckles] Time passes, etc. etc. 


Okay so let's make our vampire, how about that?


ALI: Yeah, let's do it! [flips page] Page one, our vampire.


JANINE: Nice clean page. Get my book clippy thing.


ALI: Oh hell yeah.


JANINE: Which I put in the wrong way but it's fine. [Ali chuckles] It's also turned the wrong way- I bent this one [Ali gasps] to make it better? To make it more usable and less hard on books, but I often just forget the way it's bent. Um, okay.


So, start by imagining a person in the distant past—a Roman emperor, a Mesopotamian midwife, a French knight. This person will become your vampire. Imagine when and where they were born, and who they were in life.


Start a Memory with one Experience that encapsulates their history. For instance, I am Henri—Henry, whatever—son of Jon, born near the Loire Valley in the 13th Century of Our Lord; I am a poor knight swindled out of my inheritance.


This first Experience is a little different than most Experiences in that it’s a broad summary of the vampire's life before becoming an undead thing. This Experience will be slotted into the
character record’s first Memory.


So, what kind of person are we thinking? What's the vibe? 


ALI: What is the vibe? Um…


JANINE: I'm also open to- it doesn't have to be history, it could be- we could make something up. We could be very fudgy about history. My test game was about a vampire nun, which was extremely fudgy about history. [Ali chuckles] Because I'm just here to have fun.


ALI: Right


JANINE: And also because my keyboard is over there, and I can't look at Wikipedia right now, so.


ALI: [chuckles] Sure, yeah. Hm, but it should be old-timey right? Like the game is specific- 


JANINE: I think that's the vibe right? Like I think that's the- it's- so I mean, I'm also holding this pen. [Ali laughs] So it's like, it's weird if it's like it's 1999, and…


ALI: Right, yeah. Do we want to go like living in a city, or in the countryside? [giggles] Or…


JANINE: I could go either way- I kind of like the idea of like a country vampire, because
like what do you do? [Ali laughs] City vampire is, you know. City vampire is a tale as old as time.


ALI: Right. 


JANINE: You know what city vampires do. [Ali chuckles] But what about like, you're like just some person with cows, and like a vampire rolls through your area.


ALI: Yeah


JANINE: Then what? 


ALI: What are you gonna do? 


JANINE: Okay. [Ali chuckles] I’m on board.


ALI: Okay.


JANINE: How did I set this up before? I don't need to- this was not like super- this was
a bad, this- don't do this, we're gonna do it different. [gestures to page written for previous game] But um,


ALI: It was a learning experience so it was worth-


JANINE: It was a learning experience it was worth having. Alright, so a name.


ALI: Well, we're gonna be here for…


[both chuckle]


JANINE: Um… what's a good- I can't say what's a good farm name, because I'm gonna pick a name that's someone's name, and then they're not gonna want it to be a farm name. 


ALI: Right.


JANINE: You know?


ALI: Sure. Um…


[short pause, Ali giggles]


JANINE: I wish I could open a browser tab and go to that website [Ali laughs] that makes fake people.


ALI: Yeah, I was gonna say Alana because she's like a- a Star Wars like [Janine laughs] rancher OC that I have right now. 


JANINE: Mhm.


ALI: But then I also remember that we did a lot of regrets for the series already? [both chuckle] So maybe we don’t double down on that? [laughs]


JANINE: Yeah… that's a tough one right.


ALI: Uh huh. But like Elise, like a Jane,


JANINE: I like Elise. 


ALI: Yeah, I- [giggles] 


JANINE: Liesse, or Elise?


ALI: I had said Elise, but I think both of them work.


JANINE: Elise is good.


ALI: Okay.


JANINE: Okay. My pen’s not- come on I just refilled these the other day. [Ali giggles] Okay, Elise, and what about last name? Um… 


[00:30:00]


ALI: Alright, something simple, like two syllables…with an ‘M’ maybe? [soft chuckle]


JANINE: I'll use… you know what I'm going to reuse, um, one of Adaire’s original last names, Foreman. 


ALI: Ooh okay! [chuckles]


JANINE: Which I want to say- I don't remember if that was the- I don't remember… So Adaire's hyphenated, original last name was Neath-Foreman. One of those was about pig farming. I think it’s Foreman? But I’m not sure. I don't remember where I got ‘Neath’ from.


ALI: [laughing] Okay.


JANINE: One of those has something to do with farming, maybe it's this one. I don't know! Okay. So we need to make… yeah we'll make her- we'll make her first Memory. Actually hang on, we have to- I need to count. So it's People, Skills, Resources. Mark can go on this first page. I'll leave a spot for it here. And maybe we can also do Skills here. [takes time to write]


ALI: Okay. 


JANINE: But, Resources… [flips page] do over here. Remember we were setting this up and I was trying to make sure everything was like all perfectly lined up and square. [Ali laughs] And then I was like I need to let go, because this book's just gonna end up diagonal anyway.


ALI: Yeah, it's what's gonna happen.


JANINE:  I spelled resources wrong. [pen crossing out sounds]


ALI: Oh..! [laughs]


JANINE: Sometimes you just gotta cross it out and move on. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Okay.


ALI: This is actual play.


JANINE: Yep. It’s pen and paper, baby. Okay, so… Memory number one. 


So our first Experience is our summary of sort of who we are. Uh, hmm.


ALI: Oh we're like, pre-vampirism.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Life. 


JANINE: So we'll start simply. 


[starts writing] 


I'm Elise. We don't need an exact year, but maybe make up a place. [Ali giggles]. Born and raised in… something -mire. 


ALI: Quinnmire? 


JANINE: With a ‘Q’ or ‘K’ or… what do you think? 


ALI: I was thinking with a ‘Q’. [chuckles]


JANINE: Okay. I don't know why I'm feeling two ‘n’s, but I’m feeling two ‘n’s.


ALI: Sure, yeah.


JANINE: [writing] It’s a small… country village, where I run the mill? Is- is where, is for some
reason where that feels like it should end? 


ALI: Sure. [crossing-out sounds] So people are bring in their wheat to you, and.


JANINE: Yeah 


ALI: “Hey can you mill this for me?”


JANINE: Exactly. Bingo. Uhh… okay. Next, create at least three mortals, and add them to the vampire's record sheet.


ALI: Okay


JANINE: These mortals will have a relationship with your vampire—relatives, friends and lovers, enemies, mentors, debtors, or anything else appropriate for the time and place you've chosen.


ALI: [chuckles] Okay. 


JANINE: Describe each character in a few words, and know that these characters can and should be very important, but will not be around for long. 


ALI: Ohh…


JANINE:  Well they're all very mortal so. 


ALI: Sure, yeah.


JANINE: I want like a- I want like a plucky assistant.


ALI: Oh yeah


JANINE: Named… Benoit. [Ali chuckles] What's a good last name for a miller's assistant? Um… I don't know Cross.


ALI: Oh Cross is great. 


JANINE: Mortal- I was thinking hot cross buns. [Ali giggles]. I feel like he should be like a teenager at the starting point here. 


ALI: Oh sure sure sure. Is this like assistant slash like, oh my god what is the word- like apprentice?


JANINE: Apprentice? 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE:  I don't know if millers had apprentices but like I think that's, that's kind of the the gist
of it right? 


ALI: Yeah


JANINE: That's kind of the thing.


ALI: Wants to be a miller himself one day, or themselves. 


JANINE: Aspiring miller. Like center up the stuff up a little bit better. Teenage assistant at the mill. Ready-cheeked.  That's probably fine as a descriptor, I don't know. I don't need to give him a whole thing. Who else do we think would be significant in this person's life?


ALI: We need like a nearby farmer right? Like somebody who's- 


JANINE: Oh that's true, yeah.


ALI: Supplying the grains, running a general store maybe.


JANINE: So nearby grain farmer, and then like maybe a nearby shopkeep where- sorry I had, I saw a bit of cat hair on the camera stand. [Ali laughs] And just like didn't even think about, like yeah I should fuck with that for sure. I'm gonna leave a little a little bit of space here, because again I’ve learned my lesson. I'm gonna have to- I should have actually left like a buffer here, but oh well, I can- 


ALI: We'll figure it out.


JANINE: Overflow the Resources- it'll be fine. Um… Je…rome?


ALI: Ooh, Jerome.


JANINE: …I was gonna say Fortnight? I didn’t realize that’s- [Ali cackles, Janine laughs] 


ALI: Yeah, yeah. Jerome Fortnight. You know that was a word before, and it's going to be a word after.


JANINE: I know. I know. I will it, I think it's done.


ALI: [laughs] Yeah maybe. Well, it's spelled the other- the, the time they spelled it differently, right? 


JANINE: Um.


ALI: It hasn't been this entire time, 


JANINE: I think so yeah.


ALI: Fort. Nite. N-i-t-e. Get a g-h-t in there and it's now, you're professional and it's-


JANINE: Are you saying you're sold on Jerome Fortnight?


ALI: I think that I might be.


JANINE: [chuckles] Alright. I said I was gonna leave space here, and then I ended up not leaving like any space.


ALI: Well. We’ll figure it out.


JANINE: I never learned. This is the same thing that happened with… Sister Claire and Mother Superiority. They all just got shoehorned in there.


ALI: [laughs] Okay so Jerome-


JANINE: Alright, is he our farmer or shopkeeper?


ALI: Maybe the shopkeep?


JANINE: Okay. What's his look?


ALI: What’s his look? Bearded. [laughs]


JANINE: Alright. Bearded. [Ali giggles more] Next, [Janine chuckles], is our farmer.


ALI: Maybe this is like, a Clara? Is that a weird farmer name?


JANINE: Sure. [stifling chuckles] That was my mother's name, but okay [Ali laughs]. This is the thing right? I said like I can't I can't pick a name and say it's a farmer name, because then someone who has that name might not want to be a farmer name, and then-


ALI: Here we are.


JANINE:  How the tables have turned [Ali laughs]. What's what's a good last name?


ALI: Um, Monroe? That's not a farmer’s name, what am I doing-? [laughs] Maybe Clara came from the big city.


JANINE: You’ve made like a like a doe-eyed 1920s starlet.


ALI: [laughs] I did..! Well.


JANINE: Um… [exhales]. Uh… man, all the ones I know are like trades.
ALI: Oh, sure.


JANINE: Uhh… you know what, fuck it. Smith.


ALI: Perfect. Doesn't have to be any more complicated than that. 


JANINE: If it's good enough for Jane Austen it's good enough for me. [Ali chuckles] Okay. Um… local, wheat… that's that little- ignore that, that's not anything. [Ali giggles] Local wheat farmer- what's her look?


ALI: What's her look? Tan? [chuckles] Outside a lot? I don’t know.


JANINE: Okay. Yeah. Maybe like calloused, like a little bit like rough. 


ALI: Oh yeah.


JANINE: Also probably a little bit jacked.


ALI: That's what I was thinking, yeah.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Do we want to write down pronouns for each of them too?


JANINE: Good idea, yeah yeah. I think Benoit Cross is… probably he/him? Jerome Fortnight, any thoughts?


ALI: I guess they/them maybe? 


JANINE: Mm okay.


ALI: He/they? 


JANINE: And Claire Smith.


ALI: We said she/her for her I think. 


JANINE: Alright yes, yeah. Okay. That's our three mortals. [counting sounds]


Give your vampire to be three Skills fitting for their lot in life and three Resources they obtained while still mortal. Remember Resources can be almost anything big or small, a Resource
is a Resource whether it's an obsidian knife or a fleet of warships. [Ali chuckles] We're probably gonna aim a little bit lower than a fleet of warships. 


ALI: Sure. But we could do like a single horse.


JANINE: That's true. [Ali chuckles] What's our horse's name? 


ALI: Oh boy. [Janine chuckles] Michael.


JANINE: Michael. What’s Michael’s look?


ALI: Brown, large. [laughs]


JANINE: Alright large and brown, got it. Other Resources. A mill, like a building right? 


ALI: Yeah, uh huh.


JANINE: Like the mill itself.


ALI: That's valuable.


JANINE: I don't think you actually have to describe the Resources but I'm doing it.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Here we are. And another Resource


ALI: Would like, a carriage be one? But we already have the horse, we don’t have to-


JANINE: I thought you were saying carrot. 


ALI: -lean so deep into transportation. A cool knife?


JANINE: What about like, what about like an heirloom dress? 


ALI: Ooh, okay!


JANINE: It wouldn't be like super fancy, but it would be one of those like, you know your mom worked for Lady- I was gonna say [chuckles] Lady Vengabus, I don’t know what’s wrong with me today! [chuckling] That’s not- you know your mom worked for some lady, and then the lady died and then they distribute the lady’s stuff among the staff.


[00:45:00]


So it's like a nice dress like used, but it's like, it's nice. 


ALI: Right, yeah yeah yeah. 


JANINE: It's like worth passing down, it's that kind of thing.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Okay. Skills. Milling related skills. [Ali laughs] Didn't think this all the way through [chuckles]. 


ALI: Organization? [chuckles] Networking? [Janine laughs] 


JANINE: Multitasking?


ALI: Yeah. These aren't like vampire-specific skills though right? Like is in the- is there like an example Skill in the book that's like, is it like ‘talks well’ or is it like..?


JANINE: Yeah it could it could be like you know, good at talking to people or like, uh, good at fighting like, ‘duelist’. ‘Congenial’ would maybe be a good one like, you've gotta you gotta like chat to people while the grain's getting milled.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Maybe.


ALI: Yeah you have to have good relations with people for them to bring their grain to you.


JANINE: Yeah. [Ali chuckles] Um. 


[short thinking pause] Bartering?


ALI: Ooh.


JANINE: Like, selling you know? 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Like you'd have to be good at bartering in a small town, like dealing with the shopkeeper and like getting the prices good, and all that stuff. 


ALI: Oh, maybe like a good sense of direction?


JANINE: Ooh yeah, I like that! [Ali giggles, writing pause]


Keep hitting the microphone with the end of my pen.


ALI: I can’t hear it for what it's worth.


JANINE: Okay, that’s good. Okay.


Next we create three more Experiences with one Experience each being centered- sorry, being entered into a separate Memory. Each of these Experiences should combine two of your
vampire’s traits. If your vampire has the Longship Bøkesuden as a Resource and the Character Gundar, a viking jarl, like a father to me, [Ali laughs], you might write an experience like, 
Gundar takes me on my voy- on my first voyage aboard the Longship Bøkesuden; his touch calms me when we first leave sight of land.


Okay. [chuckles] 


ALI: A little outside of our scope, but.


JANINE: Yeah, again we're gonna bring that down a little bit. [Ali giggles] Okay. So it should combine any two like things we've got going on. And we need three of them that should each be entered into their own Memories, so.


ALI: Oh, and these are gonna be separate Memories.


JANINE: Yes, these are new Experiences under new Memories. 


ALI: Ohhh.


JANINE: So I'm going to make Memory two, and Memory three, and Memory four- we can have up to five, but we don't need to worry about number five yet.


ALI: So experiences are the catalyst to writing a memory? Or are they… I thought they were like a Memory sub-category.


JANINE: They are.


ALI: Okay.


JANINE: But like if you know, if we fill up each of these Memories that creates a subcategory.


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: So this first Memory is probably going to be like about our personal life as the grain miller or whatever. And then this one might be about our horse [Ali chuckles], and this one might be about our apprentice, this one might be about our dress or something. And then if it's like- well we have to create a new- we have a new Experience to create from one of our prompts, and none of them really fit in any of these? Then we would make a new Memory. 


ALI: Ohh okay.


JANINE: Or if we'd already done that we would cross out an existing one that we don't need anymore.


ALI: Okay.


JANINE: Or that's full, or whatever. 


ALI: So this first one is going to be horse Memory? [chuckles] 


JANINE: I guess it does have to be a horse Memory now. We have to combine two things right? so like, um, you know is it like did, did Clara give us the horse? Did Clara give us Michael?


ALI: Oh maybe.


JANINE: Because he was like- 


ALI: Yeah maybe the Memory could be like, I remember the first time I rode Michael and he trusted me after- [chuckles]. 


JANINE: Maybe we bought- yeah, maybe like Clara's horse had some foals and we bought one of the foals.


ALI: Mhm.


[writing pause] 


JANINE: And Claire's horse had a foal that she… sold to me. [slowly as Janine writes each word] I named him Michael but it took a lot of time before he trusted me. Clara… was impressed the first time I rode him.


This is longer than these should usually be. [Ali chuckles] They're starter members you know.


ALI: This is important stuff. This is horse.


JANINE: Yeah. It’s horse lore. [Ali giggles] Let's see. I want one about Benoit nearly crushing his hand at the mill. 


ALI: Okay.


JANINE: It's mill danger when you're an apprentice miller you know.


Benoit nearly crushed his hand on the grindstone? I think that's a thing?


ALI: You would know. You were the one running the mill in our Eco games?


JANINE: That was what that game was called, I forgot about that. [Ali chuckling] Man I was so happy when I finally brought- built that mill, it just looked so cool. 


ALI: It looks so cool.


JANINE: Just having a big windmill. Had a big windmill on the hill, [Ali chuckles] it was so sick. Or no I guess it was it wasn't a windmill, it was a water wheel. Anyway it was cool. I saved him at the last minute, NBD.


ALI: You know. 


JANINE: And our last starter Memory- yeah you know it's a learning experience, you gotta learn. What's our last Memory here?


ALI: Maybe an Experience with Jerome?


JANINE: Yeah, is it like Jerome teaching us how to barter, or like bartering with Jerome? Or like the- or like the one thing I couldn't barter with Jerome over?


ALI: Oh maybe, yeah. I don't know [laughs]. Is it something important to Jerome? You just won't cut a deal on this specific thing.


JANINE: Yeah I wonder if it's like something that's rare enough that he like kind of reserves it for someone. 


ALI: Mm.


JANINE: Although I don't know what that would be that they would be able to get it anyway. [Ali chuckles]


ALI: I was thinking like a nice apron, but like that's like not the- [laughs] You wouldn't be a shopkeeper and be like, no, I will not budge on this apron.


JANINE: It should be the cost of…


ALI: Or maybe it's like a specific like ingredient, like the cost of like lemongrass or whatever, because like he likes to put in his tea, so he doesn't want to sell out of it ever.


JANINE: Maybe it's just tea. 


ALI: Oh, see, there you go. [chuckles]


JANINE: Maybe he's just like a big- maybe they're just like a big tea nut. 


ALI: Right.


JANINE: You know.


ALI: Super into the value of it, and like knowing how long it's aged, and will not accept a different price. [chuckles]


[writing pause]


JANINE: Okay. 


ALI: Okay. 


JANINE: Lastly, create an immortal. [Ali gasps] This is the creature that gifted or cursed your vampire with unlife. Create a Mark and an Experience that explain how your vampire became a creature of the night.


One such immortal is Baron Hollmueller, an Austrian noble and a vampire; he stole the deed to my land. The corresponding Experience might be I duel the eerie Baron Hollmueller across
the roof of the abbey; he nearly cuts my head from my shoulders but I do not die, which leads to the Mark, My neck is permanently broken—eugh.


ALI: Mmm.


JANINE: I wear tight scarves and walk slowly to maintain my dignity. Cool. Alright and this should be our last Memory slot. So, we need an immortal who shows up and causes some trouble.


ALI: Yeah. Should it just be a person who's like about town, who's like pretending not to
be a vampire? Or should it be like, I was out in the woods right one night and I came across uh, what looked like a wounded wolf or whatever, and it was actually this vampire. Can vampires shapeshift? Yeah they can. 


JANINE: If we decide they can [Ali chuckles] they can totally do it. Why not? 


ALI: Yeah maybe that's it. Like a wounded animal that ended up transforming into this thing and then making me a vampire.


JANINE: Uh okay, so. Sorry vampire who is a wolf in the forest? 


ALI: Yeah, like finding a wounded animal somewhere, and like trying to approach it. And then
it transforms into a vampire and you get cursed. Or, you know, Elise gets cursed


JANINE: Yes, okay. Who's that vampire. [to the rhythm of “Who’s that Pokemon?”] Who's that vampire? [Ali laughs] 


ALI: Uh, well. Yeah. Who's this vampire? We need like an out there name, right? This has to be like a Von Baron McCree.


JANINE: Von Bear-on [Ali snorts and laughs] I don't think that guy's a real bear. But baron's the one who makes the pizzas, right?


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Again it's killing me, I can't just easily open up a tab right now. [Ali chuckles]


ALI: I was about to say, Whistopher, which is Christopher but Whis instead of Chris, which is [Janine chuckles]


JANINE: It's like a ghost Christopher, or like a very daydreamy Christopher.


ALI: Oh yeah.


JANINE: I… am going to suggest, single name like Cher. 


Clotilde. Immortal. She/her. I wrote she/she, that’s not- [chuckles] that wasn’t correct. [writing and saying] Vampire who can turn—whoops—into a, 


[01:00:00]


Sick-ass wolf. [Ali laughs] [turns page]


And then we go over here. [slowly while writing] I found an injured wolf in the woods, and tried to help her. This was clos—wuh, bad one, real bad—Clotilde, who repaid my kindness, uhh by biting me? [Ali chuckles]


ALI: Sure.


JANINE: Maybe- I'm thinking of like- so there's like a there's like a wolf biting person kind of thing here, but I'm thinking like what if she was like, human form and bit- but it's like a hand bite, and that's the Mark.


ALI: Ohhh~! Yeah that’s great.


JANINE:  I'm adding “and turning me” here, but we can like take that for granted right?


ALI: Right yeah.


JANINE: Although it should be something a little- we should narrow this up a little bit in terms of
like a Mark. Maybe there's like a full-on like chunk missing? 


ALI: Oh you think it should be like, grosser than just like, like a half moon tooth mark?


JANINE: Yeah I think like, maybe like this part is just like, like there's just like a dip.


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: So she has to like wear gloves or something. 


ALI: Sure.


JANINE: Okay. Alright so, playing the game. Answer a series of prompts- answer prompts either in writing, or allow yourself- create, lose and alter your vampire's traits as instructed. Every time you answer a prompt you must create an Experience and add it to a Memory unless instructed otherwise. 


So the way you get to prompts is you roll your D10 and D6, and subtract the result of the D6 from that of the D10. If the result is positive you move forward that many prompts. If it is negative you move backward instead. A zero means you encounter the same prompt
a second time, which is why there's like multiple versions of these. And if we've gone through all of them, you move to the next prompt.


If you are instructed to check a Skill but have no unchecked Skills available, lose a Resource instead. Likewise if you cannot lose a Resource when instructed to do so, check a Skill. When either of these substitutions occur, it indicates that things have gone very badly for your vampire. Narrate the worst possible outcome. Only Skills and Resources may be substituted for each other, you may not choose to lose Characters, Memories, or Marks in place of a Skill or Resource.


You must lose a Skill or Resource and if you have none, then your game is over. Narrate your vampire’s demise using the prompt for inspiration. Uh, beep bop boop, prompts. Start counting at prompt one on the next page, subtract blah blah blah, okay got it. Gotcha.


So, I shouldn't waste time putting this in, because I probably got to turn the page immediately anyway. But, listen. Okay. So my D10 and my D6 here


ALI: Let's do it. Moment of truth.


[rolls dice]


JANINE:  So it's a four.


ALI: Minus one.


JANINE: Minus a one, that puts us at prompt three. 


ALI: Mmm!


JANINE: Okay.
A loved one discovers your condition and works to help you. Create a Resource which represents their assistance. Create a mortal Character if none are available. 
So we're going to have to create a relative or a loved one. Unless one of these characters that we have is already a loved one- I don't know, I don't- it doesn't feel like any of them
are loved ones. 


ALI: Yeah, no


JANINE: And then we need a Resource, and then a Memory comprising what’s happening there.


ALI: Yeah, that's a that's a heavy one. It's a weird thing because like if you think of somebody working on a farm, you think of someone sort of being settled where they are. But it can be like a- I visited her home, and this person knows this thing about me,yadda yadda. 


JANINE: Yeah. I mean it could be Clara. 


ALI: Oh yeah.


JANINE: If she's the local like, the main person who's working with us, like that's a pretty-


ALI: Mm.


JANINE: You know that's probably a very- that could be a very tight friendship at the very least.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: What would be a thing you would give a vampire to help them?


ALI: [chuckles] Um, what would be a thing that you give a vampire to help them? Some sort of good luck charm? Or a big hat of-? [laughs]


JANINE: A big hat..! [laughing] I mean a very wide straw hat would help a vampire.


ALI: Yeah, it wouldn't hurt.


JANINE: And she probably has straw. I actually don't hate that idea. [Ali laughs] There's like a practicality to it that I admire you know.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: What do you think?


ALI: I love it.


JANINE: [chuckles] [short writing pause] Clara caught me avoiding the sun, [slower due to writing] she figured out my secret and gave me a lovely wide hat.


That's a very pleasant one. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Oops. Keep hitting the fucking microphone.


ALI: Oh, so this is a new Experience, going under the Clara-


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: -chain of Memories, quote unquote. Shoutouts to [chuckles] Kingdom Hearts, I guess.


JANINE: What? I don’t get it. I don’t enough of Kingdom Hearts to get that one. 


ALI: Isn’t Chain of Memories one of the- it’s the-


JANINE: Ohh sure, yeah.


ALI: GameBoy Advanced-


JANINE: Is that the one that’s like, Chain of Memories 365 over


ALI: I believe that might be it.


JANINE: 15? Divided by… 3. Okay. Done and done. So we take our dice again, drop one. [rolls dice] That's a complicated- okay. So, negative five?


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: Can we go back around? I guess- I don't know if they- …no, right? They didn't answer that question, did they? 


ALI: I thought that- mm? I remember there being something about negative numbers. 


JANINE: Okay, you may never- you may not move backwards past prompt one, just encounter one again. Okay. Sure. So we're just at one. 


ALI: Oh, oh, okay.


JANINE: Oh good, this is a good one. In your blood hunger you destroy someone close to you. [Ali cackles] Kill a mortal character. Create a mortal if none are available. Take the skill Bloodthirsty. Okay! So.


ALI: Shoutouts to the apprentice, maybe.


JANINE: …yeeah. 


ALI: That feels like the obvious one, but, you know. There-
 
JANINE: He's gonna be around at the wrong time and maybe see the wrong thing, you know?


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Although it sucks that like, the next Memory in the Benoit chain after I saved
his hand from being crushed, [Ali chuckles] is that I fucking killed him and ate him.


ALI: We didn't ask to be bloodthirsty.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: We didn't ask for this kid to be bleeding in front of us, and then for us to be like, oh right I have to feed on people. [laughs]


JANINE: I like your thing of like, oh he's he got hurt in front of us and it like tempted us.


ALI: I just- so thirsty.


JANINE: Yeah. [Ali laughs] …yeah. [writing pause]. R.I.P Benoit


ALI: Hardly knew you.


JANINE: Benoit Cross more like Benoit crossed-off.


ALI: That's a great name too. Well, there'll be more mortals.


JANINE: I just realized I made a coffee two hours ago and didn't touch it.


ALI: Ohh. Well now it's like perfectly room temperature, I mean [laughs].


JANINE: I like that though, so it's okay. 


ALI: Yeah. I think that's the warmest i'll go with coffee, so. Great.


JANINE: Room temperature? 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: I'm an iced guy.


JANINE: Mm. I think ideally for me it's like, either iced- either like below room temperature, or a bit above. 


ALI: Oh sure


JANINE: Would be the the sweet spot for me. Man I can't believe we fucking killed Benoit [Ali laughs] immediately. That’s rough.


ALI: It’s the prompt!


JANINE: It’s the prompt. Five minus five is zero! So.


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: I guess we're staying on prompt one. You are overcome by panic and maul someone close to you, accidentally turning them into a monster like yourself. Convert a beloved mortal Character into an enemy immortal. Take the Skill Ashamed. 


[Ali laughs] Okay! I don’t know if Ashamed is really a skill in my experience but.


ALI: Yeah. Well, that's that's a great point I don't- wouldn’t count that one.


JANINE: Also the fact that they say it's a beloved mortal character, I think has to be Clara, right? 


ALI: I think so, yeah. And then I didn't want to kill Clara the last turn,  even though it was also a choice, but now.


JANINE: I think this is our number three in our Clara pool. [Ali chuckles]


ALI: We maintain this relationship just to immediately destroy it.


JANINE: Yeah. I want to double check what happens when… [short pause] …okay never mind. I was wondering like when you lose a memory do you like lose the Skills, but like I guess you don't.


ALI: Ohh, well. And now that I think about it like, when I think about people who act without shame. I [laughs], I often think to myself, I'm glad that I'm too self-conscious to behave that way. So maybe it is a skill.


JANINE: Yeah. Maybe. Maybe it's like a thing where people are looking at, looking- Clara’s like looking
for Benoit


ALI: [gasps] Yeah.


JANINE: And we sort of freak out.


ALI: Yeah. This first couple months of vampirism just isn't going well. You know it's a tough thing to do.


JANINE: Yeah. [short writing pause] Clara also knows that we're a vampire, so she like trusts us right. That's why she's probably our enemy now is like, she really fully trusted us and…


ALI: Yeah. 


JANINE: We… yeah.


ALI: [chuckles] God.


[writing pause]


[01:15:00]


JANINE: Trying to remember if you… uh right, each time you interact with them in a course of resolving a prompt you should add more descriptors. Okay so we kind of haven't done that with Clara but. Also we only really did set up stuff I guess. Um. Let's see. Maybe we can add something here.


Kind. She was kind to us.


ALI: Yeah.


[writing pause]


JANINE: I guess the descriptor to add to Benoit is ‘Dead’.


ALI: [laughs] Sure.


JANINE: I kind of want Clara- like what's the mark that Clara has if she's a monster like us, what's the mark that we that that we gave Clara.


ALI: Ohhh..!


JANINE: Is that too dark to consider? 


ALI: No that rules! Um… maybe she has a scar in the like clavicle area, like the shoulder. Like a little bit below the neck you know? [chuckles]


JANINE: Oh yeah sure. [writing pause]


Okay. Grab our dice again. Do a little roll. [rolling sound] Eight minus five is three.


ALI: Yeah. [page flipping sounds]


JANINE: So I think that puts us at four, unless we're count- well we don't count one as one, okay. 


ALI: Oh, do we not?


JANINE: No. 


ALI: Okay. 


JANINE: Because zero is the one left, just at one-


ALI: Oh, oh. Yeah.


JANINE: Right? So, yeah.


You are exposed and flee to a neighboring region. Lose any stationary Resources. Oh fuck. There goes our mill. [Ali laughs] Check a skill. A mortal flees with you, what new name do you adopt among these strangers? 


ALI: Okay so we still have our horse. And this all ties in- this is perfect [chuckles]. We have our horse and our nice dress.


JANINE: We definitely don't have the- yeah, we have everything except the mill, I think. 


ALI: Yeah. And this makes- this is, you know, after the last two Memories we had, I think it's time to go.


JANINE: Yeah, it’s bad for us in that town right now, uh huh.


ALI: Our only mortal left is Jerome so I guess we're fleeing with Jerome? Does it have to be Jerome or can we like? We might as well because if not we're just going to leave Jerome there right? 


JANINE: It doesn't say create a Resource- it doesn't say create a mortal. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: We also have to check a Skill, right? And we need a new name


ALI: A new name and uh- we’re just checking-


JANINE: This seems like a good time to check Good sense of direction, right?


ALI: Yeah


JANINE: Or Ashamed?


ALI: Ohh, maybe Ashamed is it.


JANINE: Maybe Ashamed. 


ALI: That would cause you to flee.


JANINE: I think it’s Ashamed.


ALI: And that just means that it's been used, or?


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Okay.


JANINE: And a Skill can’t be used twice. We still have it, but we can’t like check it a second time for example.


ALI: Oh.


JANINE: But we could cross it off.


ALI: Maybe this can be a thing-


JANINE: [overlapping] A thing it asks us to lose. 


ALI: Like, we went to Jerome for travel supplies, and they said he’d help me with the trip, or something.


JANINE: Yeah, I guess Clara could’ve also exposed us, right? If she’s our enemy?


ALI: Yup.


JANINE: She could’ve leaked that we killed- that we killed Benoit.


ALI: [laughing] I feel like if I was Clara I would’ve-


JANINE: Kinda left some of the details out.


ALI: It’s a weird position for Clara to be in now because like, would you keep that hush-hush because now you’re also a vampire?


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: But yeah, I feel like Clara coming clean at this moment is the more honest thing.


JANINE: [writing sounds + pause] Oops. [more writing sounds + pause]. Also we’re saying at this point, journal's probably fairly old. Like it in terms of time passing, each prompt is probably- it could be days, weeks, months, or years?


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: So this could be the- this could be a thing that happened like within a year of turning, or it could be a thing that happened like within 10 years.


ALI: Yeah. I was thinking like weeks between these, but yeah.


JANINE: Yeah. [chuckles, Ali chuckles]


ALI: Just seems to be happening, you know.


JANINE: Yeah. I'm like switching up my tenses a lot, and the English student in me is very bothered by that, but [Ali chuckles]  the person in me who's recording this, does not care.


Does Jerome think everyone's lying? Is that what’s up? Or is Jerome like- are they like in love with Elise, or is it just a thing of like, it feels like wrongful- wrongfully accused, is maybe the play here. 


ALI: Oh maybe.


JANINE: He still doesn't know we're a vampire, so.


ALI: Right, yeah. Yeah it could be like Jerome thought I was wrongfully accused and wanted to help me.


JANINE: Yeah. [more writing pause] Ohhh… that's probably bad news for Jerome.


ALI: [laughs] You know, new town.


JANINE: What's our new name? 


ALI: Oh god we need a new name. Do we have a last name?


JANINE: Foreman.


ALI: Oh right right right. This is so funny that you gave one of the Adaire names to Elise, and now we immediately have to change it [laughs].


JANINE: Uh huh, yup.


ALI: Adaire Ducart is our new name now.


JANINE: We could Adaire- so Adaire’s- I do have- I don’t think I’ve ever used Adaire’s first fake’s- fake name. I think I maybe threw it out in like a Tips. It's actually a really good vampire name. 


ALI: Oh?


JANINE: The last name is anyway. Adaire’s like patent medicine seller name that I came up with was Ada Zanguine? 


ALI: That’s amazing.


JANINE: Because she would sell patent medicines that cured everything from A to Z or whatever. 


ALI: I vaguely remember this. [laughs]


JANINE: Yeah! [laughs] So, I mean you know. It's a good vampire name though.


ALI: It’s such a good vampire name.


JANINE: It’s like, very corny, but. [Ali laughs]


ALI: Even just Ada is a great vampire name, I think.


JANINE: Yeah. Let’s go Ad- hmm. Let’s just use Ada. We can do whatever the fuck we want, I’m not gonna sue myself.  


[writing pause] Add that aka on the front. [Ali giggles]. Keep them straight. Okay. [rolls dice] That’s zero again.


ALI: [laughing] Oh no!


JANINE: You were adopted into a strange cult who take you in despite or because of your outlander origin. Check a Skill and create a Resource, The Secret Cabal. How did they find you? What vile initiation ceremony do you undergo? Do they know what you are? Okay, that's a lot.


ALI: Wow.


JANINE: So Resource. [short writing pause] Secret Cabal. Check a Skill. 


ALI: This feels like it should be Cordial, or Bloodthirsty.


JANINE: I was thinking the same thing. [Ali chuckles] Congenial feels a little more honest, though.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Unless you wanna specifically be in a murder cult. [Ali chuckles] 


ALI: It's either these people saw you drinking blood and were like, hey come through, or you were just nice to them, and so.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: They invited you in. It could be a secret couple of other vampires though, right? Or is that not..?


JANINE: That's true. 


ALI: Or like vampire worshippers.


JANINE: Yeah it doesn't say that they're- that they're mortal or immortal. I think we should go with Bloodthirsty. Congenial feels like a weird thing to get into a cult over. [Ali chuckles] Just being nice.


ALI: Yeah I would love for this to be a blood cult, let's just go for it.


JANINE: Yeah. 


ALI: We don't have to yeah dance around what this cult is.


JANINE: Okay. So you're adopted into strange cult to take you despite or because of your outlander origin, buh buh buh, how did they find you, initiation, do they know what you are. I feel like they should be related to Clotilde.


ALI: Oh sure. Yeah.


[writing pause]


JANINE: I think they probably sensed something. They sensed my connection to Clotilde?


ALI: Oh maybe- 


JANINE: It's like a wolf cult.


ALI: Okay, yeah. Not specifically blood drinkers, but.


JANINE: Yeah. 


ALI: Weird folks nonetheless.


JANINE: [writing pause] They make me wear a wolf mask.


ALI: Perfect.


JANINE: [short pause] During and after initiation. Love a vampire wolf cult.


ALI: Yeah this is great. This is a great element of the story. [Janine chuckles].


JANINE: I also love the idea of like, a former miller [Ali laughs] who like leaves town because they killed their apprentice, and then shows up in this other town is like, I'm gonna change my name, and it'll be fine. I got Jerome here, we're gonna do okay. And then a bunch of like, wolf- like a wolf cult shows up like, here's this mask, wanna hang out? [Ali chuckles] We think you're pretty cool.


[rolls dice] Negative two. 


ALI: So we’re going back to two.


JANINE: Yes.


ALI: Okay.


[01:30:00]


JANINE: Horrified at your new nature, you withdraw from society. Where do you hide? How do you feed? Create a stationary Resource which shelters you.


ALI: [chuckles] Okay.


JANINE: I think we have to cross off a Memory.


ALI: Oh yeah? 


JANINE: And I think it might be this first- I think it might be the first one about like, our gen- our mill life and our life in Quinnmire. Because that feels like a thing we're not coming back to, right? 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: But also we have these other ones that are full. [flips page]


ALI: Oh you can’t add another-


JANINE: This Clara one… so it’s like, we can either forget our original life, our mortal life. We can forget Clara, which feels like a stretch. We can forget Benoit, which also kind of feels like a stretch. I don't think we can forget Jerome because he's hanging with- sorry they're hanging with us. And I also don't think we can forget Clotilde yet.


ALI: I feel like maybe the the original, this was what my old life was, because now not only have we left that environment, we're like specifically being like, I'm abandoning society.


JANINE: Yeah, exactly right? It feels really appropriate.


ALI: [giggles] Damn.


JANINE: Cross through that. Move on to Memory number six.


ALI: Oh and to have more than five Memories you have to-


JANINE: Yeah you have to give one up basically. Or have a diary if you're playing like a long game, but.


ALI: Oh right right right, yeah, okay.


JANINE: That’s a bit much. Okay. Where's a good place to hide in an unfamiliar town?


ALI: Maybe there's like a nearby bridge or something? 


JANINE: Like a troll? [Ali squeals] Like a troll under a bridge.


ALI: Well I was thinking like tunnels and stuff.


JANINE: Ohhh.


ALI: But then I was thinking like, you know if there's a river nearby with a bridge you can just hang out around there. [chuckles] [short pause] Maybe it can just be like the the woods, like these wolf people are near a big established like tree area, because they want to help out the woods that are in- I mean the wolves that are in that space. And then you're like fuck it, I'm just gonna just keep walking until I can't anymore and then that's where I'm going to stay.


JANINE: Maybe there's like a sick like, cave network.


ALI: Oooh!


JANINE: Kind of thing.


ALI: Yeah!


JANINE: And we're in the cave.


ALI: Yeah! Do wolves hang out in caves?


JANINE: You probably could. 


ALI: Yeah, why not.I'm like trying to think of wolf stuff, but I'm realizing my only experience
with that is coyotes.


JANINE: Oh sure.


ALI: [chuckles] I know. Just do whatever, so, that also doesn't fully count. I went went to like a wolf reserve, like a, like a- I guess you call that a reserve. They did their little show, and they were like, here's all the wolves, and you go around and you know. This is what's up. And then afterwards they were like hey, someone else just bought in like an elk, and we're gonna feed it to these wolves [chuckling].


JANINE: Oh god.


ALI: If anybody wants to watch.


JANINE: Uh huh.


ALI: And it was intense. [laughs] But shoutout to those wolves I guess, and the people taking care of them.


JANINE: Yeah. [Ali chuckles] I've withdrawn to a cave system in the woods away from society; I feed on deer I catch near a river nearby.


ALI: Perfect.


JANINE: So create a new Resource. Caves.


ALI: [laughs] That's a great Resource.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: I wish I had that.


JANINE: I love caves. [prepares to roll dice]


ALI: Alright. No whammies, big number.


JANINE: No whammies, let's get into some double digits maybe even, [Ali laughs] would be really cool. [rolls dice]


ALI: Turn some pages.


JANINE: Okay so six. That’s an advance.


ALI: Oh yeah. That’s a nine and a five.


JANINE: Three. I’m sorry it’s-


ALI: Oh okay, it’s a little outside of- yeah there we go.


JANINE: This is an eight. 


ALI: I do love the kind of like back and forth, jumpy-aroundy the aspect of this game.


JANINE: Yeah.


You were recognized for what you are by another creature like yourself. Create an immortal Character. Lose a Resource and gain a Skill. What did you lose to them? 


ALI: Oooh! This is a great one. This is a great time to have this prompt. Do we think it would be like another vampire in those caves, or like some other sort of-?


JANINE: Prob- that’s kind of what I’m thinking right, is like do we get elbowed out of our caves by
another vampire who's like- [Ali chuckles] hey what the fuck?


ALI: Oh, well I was thinking of just like some other magic user, who's out here too and like takes-


JANINE: Oh sure.


ALI: Our horse, our dress. I don't know what the- [chuckles] I feel like I'm a little attached to the caves I don't want to lose them right away, but, who knows.


JANINE: I'm gonna be honest, I feel like our horse should be dead by now. [laughs]


ALI: Oh you think like enough time has passed that-?


JANINE: Yeah. 


ALI: Yeah. I mean it still feels like this could have only been a handful of years though, right?


JANINE: That’s true. Yeah. Maybe what happens though is that like there is like a another like wolf vampire, or like a werewolf, 


ALI: I was also thinking-


JANINE: Or a shapeshifter or something who's like mad because we're eating their deer so they eat our horse.


ALI: Whoa! That’s an escalation.


JANINE: Well. [Ali laughs] Barter, you know?


ALI: I mean I get it but a horse is useful in other areas than a deer is. But I was also thinking werewolf for what it's worth. 


JANINE: I feel like that would be appropriate werewolf retaliation for like “get out of my territory.” 


ALI: Sure. Yeah I guess if you're a werewolf, what do you want with a horse?


JANINE: Yeah. Sad for Michael, but also we haven't done that much with Michael.


ALI: Yeah, fair. 


JANINE: This should go in our cave Memory though.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: What's this person's name?


ALI: Oh. I feel like if a werewolf ate your horse, is it really introducing itself in that way? Because we have to add it to the list.


JANINE: I mean we we could just maybe not know their name yet.


ALI: Yeah. This doesn't feel like it led to like a, like a confrontation yet.


JANINE: Yeah. A werewolf ate my horse because I was in their territory eating their deer. I
believe this was a warning.


ALI: [giggles] Yeah, nothing more complicated than that.


JANINE: Characters, Werewolf. Question mark, question mark. Immortal. Ate my fucking horse. [Ali snorts]. Ate Michael.


ALI: Shoutouts to Michael. 


JANINE: Okay. Oh we need to create a Skill, we need to gain a Skill for that.


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: What's a skill that you gain from… werewolf proximity? [Ali chuckles] 


ALI: I guess it would be like, is there a way to shorten, like being able to conceal yourself or..? Because it feels like what you would do is like hide better, or go deeper into the cave, or whatever else. 


JANINE: Right.


ALI: Or like maybe you preserve your food for longer, like you eat less deer because
you're salting the meat, I don't know. [chuckles]


JANINE: Cautious?


ALI: Cautious is fine. 


JANINE: Is Cautious, maybe? Because you know we've been warned, so we're being a
little more careful. 


ALI: Yes, that's perfect. 


JANINE: Cautious. Okay. [rolls dice]. Eight minus three is five.


ALI: Mm! We're getting deeper. Double digits.


JANINE: Okay, oh my god this is a bit of a leap. [Ali laughs] Generations of the same family serve you. This line starts from any living mortal character, or from the descendants of a dead mortal character. What bizarre rituals do they tie to their servitude? Lose a Resource and create a Servitors of the Lineage Resource.


This is Jerome's, family right?


ALI: Yeah- I- [speechless noises]. Maybe Jerome comes with you, gets involved with the cult stays with the cult, big into the cult.


JANINE: Yeeeah.


ALI: And because you’re a wolf vampire is like, you know,


JANINE: And the cult kind of dies off, but like blends in with the with his family?


ALI: Yeah. 


JANINE: With their family? Their family just kind of like carries it along?


ALI: Yeah. Jesus- [laughs] Some prompts you get feel perfect for the the next step of a story. The others you gotta kind of squint, [laughs] which is like a useful- that's kind of the joy of this, but also, that's really funny how this is turned out. 


JANINE: Do you have any Jerome spots left? I think we do. That's Benoit, that's- 


ALI: Or do we never have a Jerome Memory?


JANINE: Right, this was Jerome, I just Clara, and- um


ALI: Oh oh oh oh.


JANINE: Okay, so. Generations the same family serve you, this line starts from any living mortal character from the descendants of a dead mortal character, what bizarre rituals do they tie to their servitude. Okay. 


ALI: Maybe this is like generations later and like, people from Jerome's family are still like leaving tea bags outside of that cave. [Janine and Ali chuckle]


[writing sounds + pause]


JANINE: Okay, Jerome and their family slowly assumed control of the cult and turned its focus towards me; their descendants leave me tea and small comfort items near my cave. So like tea, sugar, candies, like treats. That's a fun one. 


ALI: Yeah. 


[01:45:00]


JANINE: Oops-


ALI: Also a firm establishment of the the, like time has passed like, capital-P Passed at this point. [dice rattling sounds]


JANINE: Yes, exactly right? Like this is this is the big sort of time shift for sure. [rolls dice] Okay well that's two and one so, so we go back one.


New laws or social mores make it harder for you to hide among the populace—well, we're in a cave so problem solved. How are you nearly caught and destroyed? Check a Skill, create a Skill, create a mortal criminal who assists you.


Okay I wonder if this is like, hunting gets more popular. 


ALI: Oh yeah.


JANINE: And that's kind of a fucking problem.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Check a Skill and create a Skill. So Cautious seems like the thing we're checking here, right?


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: If we're almost getting caught but not quite?


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: Then create a Skill, and create a mortal criminal who is- who assists you. [exhales] What's a good Skill to create, well what happened I guess, is hunting became more popular. Maybe a poacher helped us evade some hunters, and in return we kind of help them poach?


ALI: Ohh. Yeah, that works.


JANINE: In which case Poaching would be the, Skill?


ALI: Right.


JANINE: Okay. [slowly as she writes] Hunting has come into fashion. Wow this is where I should have the book, the pen doesn't hit the microphone stand at all up here. It’s way better. [writing pause]


Spoke too soon. Okay. What's a cool poacher name?


ALI: Uhm.


JANINE: Uhh.


ALI: Samson.


JANINE: That is a cool poacher name. [Ali giggles] Can it be Big Samson?


ALI: Sure.


JANINE: Big Samson. What is- what are their pronouns?


ALI: Uh, she/her maybe?


JANINE: Okay.


ALI: What are some good attributes to have when you’re a poacher? 


JANINE: A wiry frame, and an aquiline nose. 


ALI: Sure, yep. Those are the ones- I was just thinking that.


JANINE: Okay. [writing pause + rolls dice] I'm going gonna roll that again because the four was on the edge of the thing. I felt bad the second I fixed it. And then it just rolled two fours again anyways.


ALI: Oh.


JANINE: Okay.


ALI: So we just go to the next entry?


JANINE: We…stay on this one, and do the next like prompt, yeah.


Working across generations, you change the laws of society to your advantage. How do you bend leaders to you to your will? What do you change? Create a Resource. What?


ALI: Oh my god.


JANINE: We're gonna have to forget something for this, I think. Is it time to forget Benoit?


ALI: Oh maybe.


JANINE: I think it's time to forget Benoit.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: We're not gonna be putting any more any more entries in the Benoit tree, so. [Ali chuckles] You know.


ALI: No. No, we're not.


JANINE:  We have other ones that are full, but it just kind of feels like they're still- I don't know.


ALI: Yeah it sort of feels like that time is behind you too. You like forget your first death,


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: As you're like, willing to like subject people to your will. 


JANINE: Totally. Also working across generations. So we're talking like, big time skips now.


ALI: Mhm. Yeah it just sort of feels like what was going on with that- I mean it doesn't have to be related to the like hunting or poaching or whatever though. But it feels as though we did get out of cave.


JANINE: That’s true. You're right that it doesn't have to be related to the poaching or whatever, that could just be anything. 


ALI: Yeah. [yawning] But what are our like priorities at this point?


JANINE: Maybe that like people who don't live within city limits aren't subject to laws in the same way that people who are [Ali chuckles] in cities are? You know like the international waters thing?


ALI: Ohhh!


JANINE: Like that but if you are here in the middle of nowhere, it seems like a bad law, but well.


ALI: Yeah. Yeah don't go- don't worry about what's happening out there. Leave it alone.


JANINE: How do you bend leaders to your will, what do you change?


ALI: Yeah I think that's the tough thing for me, is like imagining how Ada would gain political influence in that way.


JANINE: Yeah, that's true.


ALI: But it could just be like writing letters, or it could be like attending town meetings, or it could be bribing people, or murdering some of them you know. [laughing] We have a lot of options. 


JANINE: Yeah. 


ALI: Oh, wouldn't it be fucked up if like, Ada turned into a wolf and then like would go to like political meetings [laughs]. And that would like sway people's votes via intimidation. 


JANINE: As a wolf?


ALI: Yeah. [Janine laughs] It’s like what’s this wolf doing here? I don’t think-! [laughing] Maybe there's something-! Maybe there’s a way to turn right on that one instead of left.


JANINE: Yeah. I'm trying to think of things that wouldn't result in like, I don’t know. How do you make people not give a shit about what's happening outside of their own area.


ALI: Oh right. I mean but it could be a wildlife thing of like, well people just go out there less because it's dangerous. But then it's- I don't know.


JANINE: But then like don't people want to like team up to solve the problem?


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: This is also specific about changing the laws of society. 


ALI: Right.


JANINE: That's the like-


ALI: Yeah, that's why it feels like Ada would have to have like, an in on somebody or something.


JANINE: Yeah. Although like if hunting’s becoming the fashion and there's poachers, there's the whole thing about like royal hunting grounds and stuff?


ALI: Mm.


JANINE: Or hunting grounds for like privileged people. Maybe the thing is that like she's um, bending leaders to her will by like- I don't know, do you just like kill the ones who come out until they stop coming out? Is that a bit much? 


ALI: I mean- I feel- you know, I don't- I like it. I suggested murder not too long ago, so I can’t take it back- [laughs]


JANINE: It’s true.


ALI: It feels like the honest like, we're outside of society at this point, so it's not like suddenly we're putting on a suit and going to a town hall.


JANINE: Yeah, yeah. 


[long writing pause] 


Okay. I am killing nobles who come to hunt. Slowly, hunting falls out of favor with the elite and policing of forest areas loosens.


Create a Resource.


ALI: Oooh. 


JANINE: That'd be like the forest right or like.


ALI: Oh yeah. I was thinking like a noble could have dropped something, but- [laughs] 


JANINE: I was thinking like a lawless forest. [more writing sounds + pause] Bet that werewolf doesn't think we're so bad now. We've done them a huge favour. [rolling dice sound] Great, one. Oh god this is back to the weird family servant train.


ALI: Oh?


JANINE: Your servants are numerous, enthusiastic, and sometimes useless. Create a Skill based on a Memory. This is the Skill you use to control them. 


ALI: Oh boy.


JANINE: If I create a skill based on an exis- well Memory I guess, would a thing. I wonder if it's actually this-  if it's actually the Clotilde slash secret wolf cabal thing that gives us the skill.


ALI: Oh yeah, that seems reasonable.


JANINE: What's a wolf power. Turning into a wolf, I guess?


ALI: Turning into a wolf is a power, but like running very fast? Probably heightened senses? Tracking? [laughs] I don’t know..! 


JANINE: Maybe- maybe to the servants in particular, Ada can appear as a wolf like in their mind, to control them? Since this is specifically like a control thing? 


ALI: Oh sure sure sure.


JANINE: That's like spooky.


ALI: Yeah. They're like dreaming of this wolf or whatever?


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Yeah that’s good. I’ll have a dream about a wolf tell Alicia what to do. [Janine and Ali chuckle]


[writing sounds + pause] 


JANINE: Okay. This is Skill. Wolf Projection, [chuckling] I guess is the best way to describe that?


ALI: Great skill to have.


JANINE: Yeah.


[02:00:00]


ALI: [chuckles] Wait..! I love that our current skills are Congenial, Bartering, Good sense of direction, Poaching, and Wolf Projection [laughs].


JANINE: Yeah, you know. Those are the five major aptitudes that you learn about people in sociology.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: Two minus four, oh my god we just keep going back and forth. We’re never gonna get past 20 in this- [Ali chuckles] One, two.


How do you find solace from the raging hunger within you? You may lose one unchecked- one checked or unchecked Skill.


ALI: Oh wow.


JANINE: I think we should lose Bloodthirsty. If this is about finding solace from our hunger.


ALI: Oh yeah.


JANINE: That's my theory. 


ALI: Yeah that makes sense.


JANINE: [flips page] We’ve got a lot of full Memories.


ALI: Is this when we give up the Clara memory?


JANINE: Maybe.


ALI: I can't think of one that's like, as associated- 


JANINE: I think yeah, I think Clara's- it's been a long time since we've had to deal with Clara, you know.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Been generations, technically.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: This one doesn't seem like it's about eating people this, and stuff. This seems like it's about controlling the area. 


ALI: Oh yeah yeah yeah. 


JANINE: So, I feel like Memory number eight… is here. How do we find solace from the raging hunger within us? 


ALI: That's, I mean.


JANINE: Wolf Projection? Transcending our mortal body?


ALI: [chuckles] Oh yeah, maybe.


JANINE: Traveling through the dreams of our servants. 


ALI: I guess, yeah [laughs] I guess like yeah, I mean if you're in your like physical form less.


JANINE: Yeah. 


ALI: You need less food? Or you just you know, are not as as raging, as the the book puts it. 


JANINE: Yeah. [writing pause] Consciousnesses. [re-writing] Conscious-nesses. Okay. [rolls dice]. One. We're back to this one. We're on prompt three for this one.


ALI: Oooh.


JANINE: A mortal protege outstrips you. They are smarter, crueler, and more capable than you can ever be. They lock you in a dungeon. For what purpose do they use you? Create a wicked mortal Character. Fuck.


ALI: Oh..!


JANINE: Yeah it's a lot, right? [Ali laughs] Is this Big Samson, or is this one of the Jerome- one of the Jerome servants? I guess we're creating, but it's a mortal protege.


ALI: Yeah, either feels just as like… huh.


JANINE: I think it should be one of the Fortnights.


ALI: Sure. 


JANINE: I think it should be a- it should be.


ALI: Yeah they don't want these these projections anymore.


JANINE: So-and-so Fortnight. Yeah. That's also the closest thing to proteges we have.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: What's a good name for a Fortnight? [chuckles] 


ALI: [snorts and laughs] …Ellen.


JANINE: Ellen Fornight? [laughing] Okay! Ellen Fightnight- [giggles]


[short writing pause] Okay, well. [more writing pause] 


ALI: So now we- they've been- they've trapped us? We’ve been imprisoned?


JANINE: Does this overwrite our Jerome Memories?


ALI: Oh maybe.


JANINE: Because this is like the new… Fortnight line.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Ellen Fortnight. [chuckles] It just sounds like a- it sounds like a marketing thing. Ellen’s in Fortnite. [Ali giggles] It’s gonna be bad. Did we- we didn't- did we pick pronouns? We didn't pick pronouns for Ellen Fortnight.


ALI: Oh we didn't. Another they/them?


JANINE: Yeah. [short pause] Okay. This is number nine right? I keep like forgetting, okay.


[writing pause] Oops. My servant, Ellen Fortnight [chuckles], [slowly as she writes] has imprisoned me in a- 


I think it's fair for them to want the wolf dreams to stop. Is that the thing that they want? 


ALI: I feel like that has to be part of it, right? We’re like-


JANINE: Or, or did they want us do they want us to inflict wolf dreams on other people? They’re wicked and cruel and stuff.


ALI: Oh maybe. Like it's not just- it's not like this like, quote-unquote still cult of people are
discovering they're being controlled. It's that this one person did, and was like hey I'm gonna take advantage of you. Because I want to control people.


JANINE: I guess they all know- they all probably know they're being controlled because it's like a cult of willing servants. Maybe the thing is that they're- they want to control that cult and have
them as their servants. 


ALI: Yeah. 


JANINE: Like Ellen wants the Fortnight cult-


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: Or servitors, or whatever the hell they're called, the… Servitors of the Lineage, to be serving them, instead of them serving us. 


ALI: Yeah yeah yeah.


[writing pause]


JANINE: Okay. Bummer. [prepares dice to roll]


ALI: Yeah was not. that expecting that turn.


JANINE: [rolls dice] Minus one. We're like- we're like caught here. [Ali chuckles] Alright. You discover an internal focus which lets you main- maintain control of your vampire self. Lose a violent Memory and take the Skill I Control the Beast, and rewrite any unchecked Skill as something new. What new name do you take to distance yourself from what you once were? How is the name symbolic?


ALI: Ohh.


JANINE: That's a lot. Okay let's take this piece by piece. You discover an internal focus which lets you maintain the- main- maintain control of your vampire self. Lose a violent Memory, and take the Skill I Control the Beast. So what’s our violent Memory here? The one about killing nobles, maybe?


ALI: Oh. Yeah I guess that's the only that's the only one we have left. We deleted the- the
Benoit, and Clara stuff.


JANINE: Benoit would have been our other violent- yeah. Yeah, I think this is our violent Memory. So we're losing that. We are taking the Skill I Control the Beast. [writing sounds + pause] And rewrite any unchecked Skill as something new.


ALI: Yeah, it feel- wait. It feels like we can turn one of the two- the top two like social skills into something more… 


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Beneficial to us.


JANINE: I think maybe… what if we change Bartering to like, Unearthly Patience?


ALI: Oh, yeah. 


JANINE: Just in terms of like, we're sort of- we're above- we're very focused, we're
sort of above our base needs. We don't need to barter because like, I can just fully wait until you die.


ALI: [chuckles] Right.


JANINE: And maybe the person who takes your place will be cooler.


ALI: Right.


JANINE: And then i'll buy the thing I want. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: You know?


ALI: Uh huh. 


[writing pause]


JANINE: And we need a name, to take it to distance ourselves from what we once were. I think this is a new Memory? Because we crossed one out. Although it kind of feels like it fits under this like, finding solace from hunger. This kind of feels like a Memory of like, gaining control over ourselves. 


ALI: Oh, sure sure sure, yeah. It feels like it fits this branch. [short pause] What's the inner focus that we found- how did that come about?


JANINE: I don't know if it's like because we're in this fucking dungeon? [Ali chuckles] It's like a meditation thing, it's just a like,


ALI: Oh, right right. And we wanted further control over our powers because like, someone else is trying to control them.


JANINE: Yeah. And it's like a thing- you know because of this Memory, like it's a train we were already on but this has kind of like sped it up.


ALI: Mhm.


[writing pause]


JANINE: What new name do you take to distance yourself from what you once were? How is the name symbolic? 


ALI: [chuckling] Jesus that's an ask. That’s a-


JANINE: That’s a huge ask.


ALI: I can open a tab if you want me to Google anything [laughs] Since it has to be a symbolic name. Do we take our old name back?


JANINE: I was thinking of like- …maybe. But we’re like distancing ourselves from that right? 


ALI: Sure. Well we're distancing ourselves from Ada who lived in the woods.


[02:15:00]


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: But I guess we don't remember any of that stuff, and it's just like yeah, I guess we wouldn't feel attached to it that way.


JANINE: That’s true, we've forgotten almost all of the memories that actually concern Elise.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: As a person. I feel like there are cool lady names that are about wolves, right?


ALI: [laughs] I bet there are. [slowly] Women names about- you would say girls’ names, because this is for people looking up girls; names.


JANINE: Enh.


ALI: Um… okay. Female wolf names, I guess [laughs]. [Janine laughs] This is for a wolf? Because.


JANINE: Silverpaw, Bramblepaw, Candybell- I don’t remember that bit.


ALI: Oh my god, yeah. 


JANINE: Are those all just gonna be fursona names? 


ALI: Okay um, this is so- okay wait. Accalia? A-c-c-a-l-i-a?


JANINE: Is that the name of a wolf in a book? Yeah. [Ali chuckles] 


ALI: Some of the names here are Luda. Sassaba. Accalia. Alpine. Sierra.


JANINE: No, these are names for actual wolves.


ALI: Leia, like the Star Wars princess- this would be an excellent choice for a sassy wolf. 


JANINE: Alpine means mountain, [Ali laughs] so I know these are that these are names intended, like things you can name a wolf, for sure.


ALI: And then other like human names that are wolf names are just like, oh this name means wolf because it has the word wolf in it. Like Adalwulf. Adolphus. Apparently is German for noble wolf. Beowulf.


JANINE: Oh, Adolfa, though.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: That’s a name.


ALI: Uh, yeah.


JANINE: It's better than Cathwulf [Ali laughs].


ALI: Better than Boris, which is also-


JANINE: That's true, it is also on here. Grimmwolf. Heardwulf. Hrolph. Ingolf. 


ALI: Oh according to this list, Zelda is a great name for a wolf.


JANINE: Zelda is a great name for a wolf. I love that some of these names specifically mean like, “wealthy wolf”. [Ali laughs] Who- where? Famous wolf. Wolf council. What?


ALI: Yeah, I think they were reaching for some of this. A Louve, like the museum.


JANINE: The museum has an ‘r’ in it.


ALI: Oh. [laughs] Sure.


JANINE: It is pronounced that way though, you’re right. 


ALI: Okay well, close enough. 


JANINE: I did see that though and I thought that was nice. Louve was good. Loveta. Lowell- or Lowella, sorry.


ALI: Mm.


JANINE: Otsana is nice. Although I kind of- part of me really wants, just. Part of me really wants a name that's just like a word, right? 


ALI: Oh sure, yeah. What sort of word? Like an adjective, or like a-?


JANINE: I don’t know. [Ali chuckles]. I don't know how to do that in a way that it doesn't sound cheesy, is the problem.


ALI: Mmm. Maybe it can be like a title? And that's why it's like- I don't know. [laughs] I have no idea.


JANINE: Naw, that could be a title. I think that's a good direction because it's a little less cheesy. It also feels like attaching the wolf stuff isn't distancing herself from-


ALI: Right. 


JANINE: The violent sort of part of her, right? 


ALI: Yeah yeah yeah. So we probably want to swerve away from that.


JANINE: Maybe she's like going after the- the sort of deer side of it.


ALI: Ohh…


JANINE: Mmm… I'm kind of with a bunch of names in my head that all just sound cheesy.


ALI: Like what? Just say the words!


JANINE: Like Fern and Ivy and stuff, and it’s like meeeh.


ALI: Oh Fern and Ivy- yeah, uhm…


JANINE: Enh…


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: I would love to do Roe, but we can’t doe Roe [Ali laughs] because we’ve already done a bunch of Adaire names? And it’s like- well this is- what is this at that point? [Ali still laughing]


ALI: Oh we can do the ode to Adaire, the vampiric ode to Adaire.


JANINE: That’s terrible- Adaire would be a way better vampire than this. [Ali chuckles]


ALI: Yeah..! Would not have run from that cult. 


JANINE: If you ask me. Okay, I have one, and I think I'm just gonna push for it because I want to move on.


ALI: Sure.


JANINE: Marrow.


ALI: Oooh! Yeah, that's great! I was like thinking like, do trees do any interesting things that would be a good name? [chuckles]


JANINE: So Marrow’s fun because it’s like the stuff in bones, but also it's like a kind of vegetable right? It's like a kind of-


ALI: Oh that's true.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Perfect.


JANINE: So it's kind of like a grim and creepy, but also like kind of benign sort of thing?


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: I didn't write- I didn't write what it symbolizes. [Ali chuckles]


ALI: We know. Do we have to write- I guess you know, it's worth it to have it. 


JANINE: In the spirit of plant and bone. Good enough. I know what it means, you know
what it means.


ALI: Yes. 


JANINE: It’s all good. [prepares to roll dice] Come on like an eight or something. 


ALI: Let's do it. Big numbers.


JANINE: That’s minus-


ALI: Aww.


JANINE: Exactly. [chuckles] One, two, three.


ALI: That’s eight.


JANINE: Yeah. You gain an advantage over an immortal Character. What do you take from them? What do you learn? Convert a Memory to a Skill. Strike out that Memory. Gain a mysterious Resource


ALI: Oh wow. 


JANINE: Okay once again, there's a lot to do here. So we have to- is our immortal character that werewolf? 


ALI: It's the werewolf and the wolf who turned- or the vampire who turned us. And I guess-


JANINE: Right, that's true. 


ALI: -Clara at this point. 


JANINE: And Clara. But it feels like the werewolf is the one who's most relevant to like. 


ALI: Right.


JANINE: To stuff. What do you learn, convert a Memory to a Skill. So it's a thing we have to strike out. Oh it's probably this one that concerns the werewolf, and poaching, and the cave system. 


ALI: Oh yeah, yeah yeah yeah. But wouldn't we like- I mean I guess for the function of the game we would get rid of that and replace it, but it feels like those memories would be fresh, because we're interacting with that person again? But that's like kind of not how the system works. 


JANINE: No, no. Like even if we lose Memories, we don't lose Characters that are attached to them. 


ALI: Oh sure, right, yeah.


JANINE: So it can be a thing of like, god that werewolf's been here for 50 years, [Ali laughs] I don't remember how we first met. I just remember I hate that guy or whatever, like.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: That kind of. Um, are we taking the werewolf's territory? Are we like emerging from the dungeon being like, completely above our needs? And just being able to be like a ghost in the forest, like they can't even touch us.


ALI: Yeah I guess so. 


JANINE: Something like that?


ALI: Are we getting- we're getting influence over the werewolf?


JANINE: We're taking something from them.


ALI: Oooh.


JANINE: And gaining an advantage over them


ALI: Oooh! Maybe- oh, maybe instead of taking the territory we’re like, having them look out for people who are going to kidnap us again or whatever right? [chuckles]


JANINE: Ohhh. Are we like making them our thrall?


ALI: Maybe.Because like, hey you have to help me out with this like cult shit, seems more honest than like. Well I'm going to take over this cave that I've been living in and it was chill until now. I know you killed my horse. [Janine chuckles] I still lived there, so.


JANINE: Gosh.


ALI: And then also what do you take from the werewolf? Does the werewolf have a cool token, or weapon or whatever? [chuckles]


JANINE: Yeah. What do you take, what do you learn, Skill, Resource.


ALI: Ohh… this is also assuming we've escaped the dungeon right?


JANINE: Kinda yeah. Enough time has passed that like maybe Ellen Fortnight just fucking died. 


ALI: [laughs] Yeah, I was there for years.
 
JANINE: Or just like slipped up. We like transcended, so maybe we just fucking.


ALI: Right.


JANINE: Peaced out. Weird days.


ALI: But like returning to the woods, we encounter the werewolf again, and then like to protect ourselves, you know, bested the werewolf in some way, and now make him do some shit. [chuckles]


JANINE: The werewolf is still like very much just like, caught up in their needs right? Like we're,
we're really above it, but they're still very much like, needing to eat every day.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: And needing to- to do whatever. And we're kind of.


ALI: Yeah. We’ve, we've moved past that. 


JANINE: Above that? So we can like use their needs against them. That kind of thing. 


ALI: Oh sure, yeah.


JANINE: Maybe? [writing] The werewolf is weak to their needs- I mean I guess if we like, use them as a guard or something right.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: Like we're sort of using them as they secure the woods but we're sort of above their-


ALI: Yeah. That's what I was sort of thinking. Yeah.


JANINE: -purview, yeah? Yeah. [writing pause]


The werewolf is weak to their needs and I am not; I use them to secure the woods but I'm beyond their reach. I have learned to control where I was-


[Ali chuckles]


ALI: Yeah, is there like a werewolf specific Skill that we would pick up from this?


JANINE: Is it like a telep- the same way that that she can connect to her servants, can she now connect to this werewolf or something?


ALI: Oh maybe. I've learned to better control my wolf projection. [Janine and Ali chuckle] I’ve reached new limits of where I can project to.


JANINE: Right. I have learned to project myself more widely. What's our mysterious Resource? A werewolf? 


ALI: Yeah I feel like the werewolf is just the resource now.


JANINE: Werewolf Protector?


ALI: Yeah. [writing pause] 


[02:30:00]


JANINE: I should add a descriptor to the werewolf. [Ali laughs] Ate Michael, comma, under my sway. Works. Okay. [prepares dice]


ALI: Big money big money big money big money big money


JANINE: [nervous chuckle] No way. [Ali giggles] [rolls dice] Oops that was a seven before I fucked it up.


ALI: Oh is it two?


JANINE: Okay. Two.


ALI: God. I guess we haven't done ten. 


JANINE: The stars- no no we haven’t- we’ve been back and forth but we haven’t done ten yet.


The stars pinwheel above you in the night. The seasons are a blur you are as an automaton unconscious of the passage of decades. A century passes. Strike out a Memory. Strike out all mortal Characters- whoa!


ALI: Wow. Feels appropriate though, given the- whoo, okay! 


JANINE: This is- this is one of those prompts to where like, the thing- the thing at the beginning of the game says that like, every prompt should create an Experience unless it says otherwise. But this to me is like, is this an Experience? I guess it is. But like am I just gonna put like, “a century passed” under one of these things?


ALI: Right, yeah. I guess it could be a further extension of the like, oh I've transcended this stuff.


JANINE: Yeah, yeah. 


ALI: Now, yeah. 


JANINE: That's actually kind of- that's kind of boss. If it's just like, I've escaped my hunger, I have intense focus and patience. A century passed, oops.


ALI: [chuckles] Right. The passage of time-


JANINE: I wasn’t paying attention- 


ALI: Yeah, I no longer feel it or whatever.


[writing pause]


JANINE: Strike out a Memory. Strike out all mortal Characters. 


ALI: Yeah. 


JANINE: I think it might be time to strike out the Clotilde- the secret cabal, and the like memory of first being able to project the wolf, like still thing we can do, but it's just like the origins of all of this are kind of lost on us.


ALI: Oh right right right. 


JANINE: We've become… also like all of this sort of ends up being like, the transition period from being a new vampire, to being a powerful vampire. Now it's just like, we're established. Like we're not just some new, whatever. We're- we've been around for a while. We're like an elder vampire. We're the, you know, the powerful one that people would be forming a cult about. [Ali chuckles] Not like a disciple. Strike out all mortal Characters- I didn't actually strike out Jerome Fortnight, but.


ALI: See ya.


JANINE: R.I.P Jerome Fortnight. Immortal, immortal, immortal. Bye Big Samson. [Ali chuckles sadly] R.I.P in peace, and goodbye Ellen Fortnight.


ALI: Oooh. No more rival. How about it.


JANINE: Except for Clara. Wonder how Clara is doing. [rolls dice] That’s another seven, and that’s a one.


ALI: So a six.


JANINE: That puts us ahead six, yeah. And two, three, four, five, six. Oh good, this is great. 


ALI: Is it?


JANINE: Some mortals have banded together to hunt you. [Ali chuckles] Well-armed and wise to your tricks, how do you defeat or evade them? Create a mortal hunter related to one of your checked Skills. Check a Skill.


ALI: Wh-? We’re just chilling! 


JANINE: So-


ALI: We've been transcending centuries [Janine chuckles], why are we getting hunted?


JANINE: So we should- we need to create a mortal hunter that's related to one of our Skills, and then talk about how we've defeated or evaded them, and then check a Skill. Um… is it that- so we've learned how to project our wolf projection more broadly… have we started like, maybe deliberately or accidentally projecting it like- are particularly sensitive individuals just getting wolf projections now?


ALI: Oh maybe. Yeah I like that


JANINE: Where would that go, let's see. [flips pages] Do we only have three active Memories right now? Eight, nine, ten. I guess we do. 


ALI: Oh.


JANINE: I guess we've had to cross a lot off. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Although this is related to projecting myself more wild- more widely, right? 


ALI: I think so, yeah. I haven't been able to control my projections the way I thought. 


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: And now, folks are coming.


[writing pause]


JANINE: Sensitive mortals have received some of my projections. As I practice and explore… [slowly as she writes] one leads a group to hunt.


This feels like a thing where the werewolf fucking rips them up, right? 


ALI: [chuckles] Why else will we have that werewolf as a Resource.


JANINE: It's true. [Ali chuckles] [slowly as she writes] They were not expecting my protector and were defeated for now. 


Important thing though, we got to make a hunter. 


ALI: Mmm…


JANINE: And check a Skill. 


ALI: I- oh woah… are we checking Wolf Projection, or I Control the Beast? I guess the beast is still controlled, it’s just-


JANINE: I Control the Beast is about the beast, so it’s not about the actual beast.


ALI: Right right right.


JANINE: It’s not about the werewolf beast. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: I think it's- I think it's Wolf Projection, to be honest, because I think this is also a moment where we'd probably like, be like, oh, this could get me in trouble right?


ALI: Mhm. 


JANINE: I've maybe overused this skill. And now we need a hunter, who I'm gonna put over on the old Memory one page. 


[crosses out a page]


ALI: Yeah. 


[short writing pause]


JANINE: Okay what's a sick-ass vampire hunter name?


ALI: Oh boy.


JANINE: Daphne?


ALI: [excited] Daphne, with a ‘ph’.


JANINE: Yeah! [Ali chuckles] Exactly. Daphne… uh… [chuckles] Daphne Cross. It’s been centuries of course, but there's perhaps some relation to Benoit. [Ali laughs] Who could say?


ALI: Who could say.


JANINE: Maybe it's a coincidence. Maybe it's a stage name because she's a vampire hunter. Who knows? I’m going to go she/her, mortal, vampire hunter, and probably psychically sensitive. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Okay, [prepares to roll dice] very excited about Daphne Cross. Even though she could just die [Ali laughs] in the next turn because 200 years could pass overnight. Who knows. Who knows? 


[rolls dice] Ten minus two is eight.


ALI: Oooh! That's a big number


JANINE: That's a big number. One two, three four, five six, seven eight. You were forced to adopt a new name. [Ali gasps] Why?


ALI: [in disbelief] Wh-! 


JANINE: [chuckling] That's it, that's all it says!


ALI: What-! 


JANINE: We are going through names like crazy. 


ALI: I liked Marrow.


JANINE: Yeah, that was good. Are we moving- are we getting out of the forest? 


ALI: Maybe.


JANINE: But then we- we still have that- the werewolf could come with us, I guess.


ALI: Yeah. 


JANINE: Or maybe like, maybe we… [short pause] I'm just wondering like is it time to like be a person in society again?


ALI: Yeah maybe. Well, um. It feels like it could just be something as simple as like, oh, these people learned my name through these projections I should change it. And then go somewhere else I guess, if we want to-?


JANINE: Oh yeah, if like people start talking about Marrow. Everyone's talking about Marrow as like this like, horrible- like, like a being. The name Marrow spreads kind of like Bloody Mary or something, like it becomes too notorious?


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: [flipping through pages] Where did Marrow first come up? That was in here, right? That's already… [still flipping] We only have two active memories now. That's, that's wild. Okay.
[writing pause] Too many mortals speak of Marrow and their stories are too wild. [Ali chuckles] [writing slowly] The name has lost all meaning. Maybe she just changed it to like Mary or something. 


ALI: Yeah. Just something very simple. No symbolism here. [laughs]


JANINE: Yeah. [short pause] Add that to the ‘aka’s. 


ALI: I can't believe how big these ‘aka’s [laugh] 


JANINE: Elise Foreman aka Ada, aka Marrow, aka Mary, aka…


ALI: Oh Mar- Marrow to Mary is great.


JANINE: Aka wolf projection, [Ali chuckles], aka. [shakes dice, rolls dice] Seven minus two is five. Now we're just making great progress. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: One two, three four.


ALI: [gasps] We're hitting the 30s!


JANINE: Five, yeah. Oh man. You were exposed as a monster and flee to a far off land [Ali chuckles]. Lose any stationary Resources. 


[02:45:00]


You do not know the language of this new place. How do you overcome this obstacle? [loudly] What new name do you take?


ALI: No way!! [Janine laughs out loud] Wow! 


JANINE: Oh! Kay. Okay.


ALI: Can we just keep- in the last prompt you were like, “what if we leave the forest?”, so we didn't do that because it wasn't the prompt for it. But like what if we just like attach them, and keep using Mary, [laughs] and then-


JANINE: [whispers] Yes! [chuckles] It's- I have a funnier solution.


ALI: [laughing] Okay.


JANINE: Okay, so. I think the deal here is like Daphne comes back.


ALI: Oh sure, okay yeah.


JANINE: This probably fits in under this like, too many people are speaking about Marrow.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: It's too much of a thing. You can't just change your name. No one was really- it wasn't about your name anyway, it was about the monster in the forest. [Ali chuckles] It comes to our dreams right? Like.


[writing pause] [writing about Daphne] …returned with a larger force. I think we should flee, to… France [laughs], I don’t know.


ALI: Yeah, I mean is there-


JANINE: Somewhere-


ALI: A different re- nearby settlement, or-?


JANINE: It says- it says like, far off land where you don't speak the language, specifically.


ALI: Do we take a boat? Is this our big city moment?


JANINE: It might be.


ALI: Get down to the river.


JANINE: [writing pause] I fled across land and water. That's vague enough. I don't speak the language here but I'm patient, and I'm gonna- like i'll learn, right?


ALI: Yeah yeah yeah.


JANINE: Like we have that extreme patience.


ALI: Yeah we've transcended mortal needs. We could just like, 


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Listen to conversations for 20 years and then be like, okay I got it.


JANINE: Exactly. The reason I suggested France was so we could do um, [writing pause] 


ALI: So you're in your-


JANINE: I call myself Marie.


ALI: [laughs] Perfect. Perfect.


JANINE: [flips pages] Just came up with Mary, I'm not ditching it completely.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: [short pause and page flips]. Okay. Now we have to get rid of any stationary Resource- I don't think we have any that are stationary. Oh Caves, and Lawless Woods, so we have two
actually. 


ALI: Is the werewolf coming with us?


JANINE: Werewolves aren’t stationary.


ALI: True, okay yeah.


JANINE: That werewolf's ours now. This is, you know, it's like American Werewolf in Paris but it's something something werewolf and such and such place.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: [shaking dice] Don't worry about it. [rolls dice] Eight minus one is seven, another big leap. 


ALI: Hell yeah.


JANINE: [exhales] One two three, four five, six seven. The deceptions you practice fool even yourself. Combine any three traits to fabricate an Experience that you believe to be true. Wow! Oh that's a great one!


ALI: Wow. 


JANINE: That's so good! [Ali laughs] Okay. I'm really excited about that- so you get to pick three of our things and then just make something up about them. I am suggesting the Heirloom Dress. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: And… 


ALI: Traits includes our Skills, yeah?


JANINE: Yeah I think so.


ALI: Maybe… oh we finally get to use Congenial.


JANINE: I don't know that any of ours really- hmm? Oh maybe, yeah.


ALI: We’ve put on this dress, we start talking to people again. 


JANINE: Well we're making up a story about it right? Like it's not even a thing that's happening, it's specifically like, we probably don't remember the origin of this dress. So it's just- this is just a lie we would tell someone.


ALI: Right, right right right.


JANINE: I need like a third- Congenial, Heirloom Dress,


ALI: Yeah it doesn't feel like we have any traits that are like on the mark here.


JANINE: No. We've been living in the forest for so long, you know? 


ALI: Well maybe we can like lie and say we're a poacher? Or that we knew- [laughs] 


JANINE: I wonder if the- okay, I wonder if the lie is that like, we got this dress this dress from Clotilde. But like in our lie, Clotilde’s not a wolf that we found in the forest, she’s like some sort of super cool, very classic vampire sire right? Like something more glamorous?


ALI: Oh that's great, yeah.


JANINE: And like that's kind of what we believe to be the truth at that point?


ALI: Yeah, she honored me with these powers, and you know.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Bestowed them upon me.


JANINE: I think this is a new Memory. 


ALI: How many Memories do we have space for? 


JANINE: Which we have space for. Uh, I want to say four? One two three four, so this would be our fifth


ALI: Okay, yeah. 


JANINE: Because everything else before this got crossed off. [Ali giggles] We had a bunch in a row that were just like, cross off a Memory and add a Skil, it was like okay, um.


I got this—this dress also at this point would be like, hundreds of years old.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: [slowly while writing] I got this antique dress from my sire. She was very elegant and wealthy, and was charmed by my manners. At this point we also don't remember we were a miller.


ALI: Right, yeah.


JANINE: Right? Like, we're just a forest vampire. Just a humble forest vampire. [shakes and rolls dice] Two. Okay. Oh this is quite… a pivot for us, oh boy, okay. Your whole being becomes centered in your senses and your hungers. Create a skill that demonstrates your feral vampire nature and lose an existing Memory.


ALI: Huh.


JANINE: [flips pages] So we've got all this- I mean it has to be- we have to lose this. We have to lose our Memory- [gestures to Memory #8] One, this is full.


ALI: Right, yeah. 


JANINE: But two, this is our whole thing about like control and mastering our abilities and stuff.


ALI: Mhm. Yeah yeah, this feels like the appropriate point to lose it.


JANINE: [crosses out Memory] Yeah. Right, so this one's about the Fortnights [Memory #9], this Memory is about wolf projection [Memory #10], this Memory is about Marrow [Memory #11], this Memory is about lying [Memory #12]. So I think we have to make a new one about being feral [Memory #13].


ALI: What's the prompt again?


JANINE: Your whole being becomes centered in your senses and your hungers. Create a Skill that demonstrates your feral vampire nature, and lose an existing Memory.


ALI: Ohh… we have needs again.


JANINE: Yeah. [Ali chuckles] I think my- I think this- I think this experience to me is just like, I remember what it is to be hungry or something, like. Or, I am hungry again. [writing pause] I wrote ‘hungy’. [chuckles] It’s fine. [Ali chuckles]


[flips pages] Alright we have to create a skill that demonstrates our feral vampire nature. Ravenous? 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: That's like… it's more of a descriptor I guess? But it's fine.


ALI: Yeah, it's more-


JANINE: Cause you know Hungry and Vicious works.


ALI: -sophisticated than Bloodthirsty, which I feel like is where we're at at this point in our life.


JANINE: Yeah. [shakes dice] Yeah. [rolls dice] Eight minus one.


ALI: Seven.


JANINE: That is seven. One two, three four, five six, seven. Oh my god. Things get real dark when you get into these higher numbers huh. [Ali chuckles]


Your body is undergoing further corruption and change. When do you first notice these new changes? Create a Mark.


ALI: Oh my god.


JANINE: So we get a new Mark.


ALI: I guess it's been centered at this point I think it’s time-


JANINE: Yeah. This is some real Anne Rice shit where the vampires get super old and turn into statues [Ali laughs].


ALI: Is it like bigger… teeth? Is it- [chuckles]


JANINE: I want it to be like really cool.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: And like, scary, but like neat. [short pause] Oh! I have something gross.


ALI: Yeah?


JANINE: How about like extra joints in her fingers?


ALI: Ooooh! Yeah, that's a great one


JANINE: [writing pause] Get them big Nosferatu fingers. [Ali chuckles] 


ALI: Better for hunting ones.


JANINE: That’s true. A bite taken out of left hand, comma, [slowly while writing] long fingers with extra—fucked that up—extra joints.


[shakes dice] Ah right, didn't write when I first noticed these new changes whoops. Honestly I feel like you notice that when you're washing your face [Ali chuckles]. [writing pause] I think that's when I noticed all the weird things wrong with my hands, so.


[shakes and rolls dice] Four. 


ALI: Let's see. 


JANINE: One, two, three, four. What simple, practical skill proves invaluable in your strange existence? How did you learn it? [Ali laughs] Create a Skill. This is a nice one.


ALI: Yeah!


JANINE: it's like embroidery, like cooking. 


ALI: Well we weren't cooking that whole time.


JANINE: That's true. [pause] Simple practical skill and valuable to a vampire with extra finger joints, [Ali snorts] who lies about where her dress came from, and has a werewolf protector.


[03:00:00]


ALI: I mean what could have- what sort of forest skills would we have picked up, while we spent centuries out there?


JANINE: That's true. We did spend centuries in a forest.


ALI: In a cave, no less.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Echolocation now [chuckles].


JANINE: [chuckles] That's not a simple, practical skill! Maybe- maybe it’s like trap making?


ALI: Oh yeah, that's great.


JANINE: Yeah. Where does that go… is that a new..? Although- well this is like um, this Memory $12 feels like a very like reminisce-y like, here's things I have and why I have them.


ALI: Oh sure.


JANINE: Or you know, of limited truth maybe. But it also- no, this has more to do with the forest. Which maybe puts it in the Marrow category, and like being hunted? Because it's from this part of our life, and this is kind of the only Memory we have left.


ALI: Oh yeah that makes sense, and then it'll leave the dress Memory for another tag.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: It makes more sense to fill a place that we've- Memories about a place that we've lost, I think, or that we've moved from.


JANINE: Yeah. [writing pause] I used to make traps in those woods; [slowly while writing] the skill is useful even in the city when you're hundry—come on—hungry. Kind of like the idea of her like, setting up one of the like, a snare in an alley, and just like snagging someone by the ankle, and just like whoop! They're gone. Just like a, you know, like a hunter.


ALI: Are we done?


JANINE: Create a Skill- this is kind of Poaching, but I guess it's also a different thing. Yeah, trap making feels different.


JANINE: Yeah. Five minus one, okay, so that is four. One two three four. Oh good. A mortal character you trusted or one of their descendants leads a hunting party. [Ali chuckles] What shared secrets are being used against you? Check a Skill. 


ALI: Did we not literally have this before?


JANINE: I think we got there on our own, kind of?


ALI: Yeah, because I guess the- it was the Fortnights


JANINE: But we had something similar before.


ALI: Who came after us.


JANINE: Yeah. 


ALI: God that’s- [chuckles]


JANINE: We don't have any mortal characters that we trust, or one of their descendants.


ALI: God that's true. It could be a definitive- well we don't trust Daphne, but that seems like the the one that makes the most sense. I guess it could be someone we trusted, and it's one of their descendants- that is really just Daphne, though. I think maybe for this one the fair thing would the like, storytelling thing is to just use Daphne right? Because she is this.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: We've set her up as a descendant, we've alluded to her being a descendant of Benoit Cross, she is a hunter. Maybe this is just like, she's followed us. How did she follow us?


ALI: Oh, sure sure sure, yeah. Yeah this is the part of the story- right.


JANINE: What shared secrets are being used against you, check a Skill.


ALI: In the episode she's introduced it's like, is it, does that person know Benoit? Is that a Benoit
ancestor-? And then like at this point of the story it's like, oh, that's been revealed. We know that for sure now.


JANINE: Yeah, yeah.


ALI: But this would be-


JANINE: Shared secrets.


ALI: Benoit was young, so it’d be like, brother or sister has a family and then, yada yada yada.


JANINE: Yeah, it would be like a great grandniece or something.


ALI: Maybe, they know about like how to identify one of your traps. So now other people are seeing the traps, and they're like, oh there's a vampire in the area or whatever else, right?


JANINE: Oh sure. Yeah. Shared secrets- I mean I guess if they were in the forest, that’s- that's knowledge. Shared secrets though feels kind of like, they know that you had an illegitimate child with so and so,


ALI: Right.


JANINE: And- you know? 


ALI: That's just not the the arc of this person though. 


JANINE: That’s true. Unless we're making up a secret about Benoit. 


ALI: Right. Or maybe this werewolf is- has mouthed off about you, [chuckles] I don't know if that would work but.


JANINE: I guess. I was thinking like what if, what if Daphne comes into town is like, “that lady's just a miller but like that-” the more salacious thing is, “that lady's a vampire”. Like you can't just- you can't be like, well my great-great-grand uncle was a miller's apprentice to her and now she's a- well I mean I guess, that's…


ALI: That feels like that works.


JANINE: Is the shared secret that you're a vampire? 


ALI: Yeah…


JANINE: Like, I don’t know.


ALI: But I guess that's not like- that's not like a public thing yet right, so it would be, like.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: You know Daphne's going out there every day, and the people under her are like, we got to capture this wolf from our dreams. And she's like no, I have to capture this fucking vampire


JANINE: Yeah. [Ali chuckles, short writing pause] Let's start with what we know. Daphne has followed me abroad, [Ali chuckles] [slowly as she writes] she knows I’m a vampire, recognizes my traps and knows where I came from. She’s using all of this to track me and like, foil my connections?


ALI: Yeah. That makes sense.


[more writing sounds + writing pause]


JANINE: Check a Skill. [flips page] Mmm… 


ALI: Are we just immediately going to check Trap-making?


JANINE: Maybe, because that's kind of given us away right?


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: I think that's fair. 


ALI: If she utilizes traps as often-


JANINE: Yeah. Okay let's do one more turn, and then we'll, 


ALI: Yeah that makes sense.


JANINE: We'll break for now. Sound good? Awesome. Okay. [shakes dice] Let's make sure this is a good roll [Ali chuckles] [rolls dice] Okay, nine.


ALI: Oooh!


JANINE: That's a big one, that's a leap. Okay. One two three, four five, six seven, eight nine. Oh this is fun, okay.


You realize that some ancient taboo or limitation you long believed in no longer applies. What circumstances prompted this discovery? How does this make your existence more satisfying? Change one checked or unchecked Skill in a way that's relevant.


ALI: Wow!


JANINE: So, what do we have Skill-wise that's like, no one gives a about this anyway?


ALI: Bartering, probably right? Do we- oh.


JANINE: We already changed that to Unearthly Patience.


ALI: Poaching?


JANINE: It might be Poaching. Does no one give a shit about poaching anymore?


ALI: yeah I guess we're we're both in a new place and maybe it's- 


JANINE: Or is it Good sense of direction? Is it, there are road signs now [Ali laughs] and maps, you can just go buy a fucking map.


ALI: [still laughing] I mean even with Google Maps, sometimes you could still walk like a block in the wrong direction when you get off the subway or whatever right? Like I feel like that's-


JANINE: Yeah but you're just like you're, you know, changing it in a way that's-


ALI: Sure. I was thinking that like people-


JANINE: Although this is ancient- ancient taboo or limitation you once- you long believed and no longer applies. How does this make your existence more satisfying? Maybe it's that transportation is easier. Like maybe, maybe we're in the time of- like maybe there's trains now. 


ALI: Oh okay, yeah.


JANINE: And it's like oh you don't have to walk somewhere or have a horse. 


ALI: Right.


JANINE: You can take a train.


ALI: Uh huh.


JANINE: And then Sense of direction becomes like, Well-traveled or something.


ALI: Oh sure sure sure. [yawns] Yeah, I was thinking of poaching as the same idea that like, access to food is… different that like, most people- 


JANINE: To be fair it seems like we're eating people again anyway. Poaching people is always going to be apparently a crime.


ALI: That’s true that’s true. Yeah, that makes sense though.


JANINE: Yeah. [writing pause] Where's a good place to put a train Memory [chuckles], or a train Experience?


ALI: Mmm…


JANINE: I don't think we have one. I think maybe it's time to forget about the time that Ellen Fortnight kidnapped us [chuckles].


ALI: Sure. Yeah I think we're a little past that. 


JANINE: A little bit. [writing pause] [slowly as she writes] I took a train for the first time. It’s much faster than walking or even horseback. I was- in terms of like, what prompted this discovery, how does this make your existence more satisfying? This helped me evade Daphne—obviously—and means that I can roam more freely. Winky face. [Ali snorts, Janine draws a winky face] Oh wait. Winky vampire face. [Janine puts vampire teeth on the winky face] Okay. 


[03:15:00]


Man, that was- that's already been quite a journey.


ALI: It sure has.


JANINE: I love that we like, found inner peace and then immediately lost it and just like, well this is. [Ali laughs]


ALI: Well.


JANINE: I don't need this.


ALI: Ain’t that the way.


JANINE: Yeah. I'm gonna put a bookmark here so i remember where we were. Actually I'm gonna put two bookmarks here.


ALI: Smart.


JANINE: Because you never know. A really nice thing about this book is that it comes with two ribbons.


ALI: Oh, that's great!


JANINE: Which is fantastic.


ALI: I only ever see that in journals which I guess is the point.


JANINE: Yeah! [Ali giggles] But I love that like, I can have this one on vampire creation and then I can have this one on the page I’m on, or I could have one in the appendixes- um appendices.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: Oh there’s an alternate ending prompt.


ALI: Oooh!


JANINE: Where you can intentionally withdraw to a place so secluded no one will ever find you. You stay there so long you forget that humanity exists. What occupies your time?


Man, that’s- [Ali chuckles]


ALI: And it's funny that we haven't got- we stayed in the woods for so long that we transcended time, and yet we did not feel that we lost our entire memories.


JANINE: Yeah, definitely. It feels like we sort of- uh, wow. [flips through prompts] Some of these. Huh. Wow.


ALI: Huh.


JANINE: When you get up to- when you get up to the 70s, there's just some game enders up there. 


ALI: Wow


JANINE: Just all of these are just, the game is over, the game is over, the game is over, [Ali laughs] the game is over. Okay! Well.


ALI: Now we know.


JANINE: That'll be fun to see where that goes. [Ali chuckles] Yeah, I think I mean we’re actually like pretty- we’re in the 60s now.


ALI: Oh are we?


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Wow. Gonna have to keep getting-


JANINE: So this could potentially end very quickly, or it could potentially take another- [Ali chuckles] four hours or whatever, who knows.


Interlude


[short musical transition]


JANINE: So, welcome back either to another episode of this not quite Live at the Table, or possibly part two of the first episode, depending on if this ends up being two turns or 20 turns. Who could say? This is one of those games where like there isn't really a clean break point? Like you can't really anticipate what the middle of the game is going to be? Because of how it works, and also because it's a solo game that you're meant to ideally play perhaps over the span of weeks even.


ALI: Right, yeah.


JANINE: So… you know it's a little tricky to predict where the exact middle will be? Last time we ran just up until you know we both had to go do dinner and that was that was fine. [Ali chuckles] Today we should be able to finish no problem. But also who knows how long it'll be? So this might just get tacked on to the end of that last one. We'll see how it goes.


So our character, to refresh, in case this is a another whole ass episode. We started out as Elise Foreman, who was a miller, in Quinnmire I believe?


JANINE: Yup.


ALI: And she had some friends, who are basically- well most of them are dead now, not all of them. [Ali chuckles] She had an apprentice who she killed. She had a friend who was a shopkeeper who traveled with her when she eventually got run out of town for killing her apprentice. Got run out of town by her former farmer friend for killing her apprentice, and then the shopkeeper Jerome Fortnight, their descendants became this sort of clan of like servants,  for our vampire? Or like wolf vampire- they sort of there was a wolf cult who formed around our sire that sort of like, adopted us, and then I guess Jerome Fortnight's kids got involved and kind of took the whole thing over and made it all about us.


Until one of them down the line was like, what if instead of you giving us orders, I give you orders and you give everyone else orders.


ALI: Mmm.


JANINE: And so they kept us in a dungeon for a bit, and then- [Ali chuckles] and then that kind of ended?


ALI: Right, we like- 


JANINE: A thing about this game, is like, 


ALI: Overcame, like?


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Physicality, and then [laughs]


JANINE: Yeah! [laughs] We overcame physicality and then it was like, “and we're free, somehow!” Because of the nature of this game, where you're just sort of rolling your dice and moving around willy-nilly, you can't really- if you resolve threads like that? It has to be a really really deliberate thing. I think by nature it kind of hops around, because that's the sort of nature of memory sometimes, right?


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: It's like, you'll remember part of what happened, but you don't necessarily remember the entire picture in that way. Like you can remember one bad day that you had at school, but you can't remember if you walked home or took the bus afterwards or something.


ALI: Sure 


JANINE: So yeah, it's you know, it's not really clear how we- to be honest I kind of imagined that we just like were in that dungeon until Ellen—I guess her name was Ellen Fortnight [Ali chuckles]—died, or sorry their- their name was Ellen Fortnight. so at some point Ellen Fortnight maybe just died, and we were like, well I guess we're done here, [Ali laughs] and we left. 


At that point- oh we also had a- because we when we left Quinnmire, we escaped to like a forest. And hung out in that forest I had a bit of a some turf disputes with a werewolf who eventually became our protector werewolf. As we like honed our powers and stuff like that. But… so we also we also went through several name changes. 


ALI: Yeah. Uh huh.


JANINE: One of the name changes was to Marrow, when we were sort of in our most transcended form I would say?


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: But we were like slipping into a lot of people- people's dreams, not always deliberately, and became sort of a folkloric creature of nightmares? So we got driven out of the forest. 


ALI: Mhm. Kudos to those people by the way [laughs].


JANINE: Yeah. And they were sort of spearheaded by a relation of our old apprentice, who is Daphne Cross, because Cross is just too good a name for a vampire hunter to pass up when it's already in the books, so.


ALI: Uh huh.


JANINE: And then we got driven off to some other town basically, and we're kind of- we've we've urbanized again right? We're- we're back to being the sort of vampire among the people, and as such our hunger has returned. 


ALI: Yes.


JANINE: We are no longer above our hunger. Our memory is also- you know, we've forgotten huge swaths of what I've just gone over. [Ali chuckles] We have forgotten. These are not- these are things that are relevant to our story on a meta level? But as a character, as uh, what the fuck’s  our name? Right we went from Mary to Marie.


ALI: Right.


JANINE: As Marie, [Ali laughs] a lot of this stuff is just nothing to us now. And a lot of the skills that we have as a result like, we don't remember how we got good at poaching. Because that Memory is off the books. 


ALI: Ohhh that's true.


JANINE: We just are, you know? It's just a thing we know how to do. And yeah you know you pick things up along the way.


ALI: Uh huh.


JANINE: So, we also, let's see where did we leave off? Oh right, I think we left off- I left a
bookmark in here. But I want to say that we also developed- right our Mark. So our- we have two Marks as a vampire- this is four. We have two Marks as a vampire. One of them is a bite taken out of our hand, because our sire was like a wolf that we- they were in the form of a wolf and we like saved them in the forest, but then they like,


ALI: Yeah, right.


JANINE: Did a big chunk of us and turned us into a vampire. And we now have another mark which is that we have an extra row of joints in our fingers?


ALI: That’s right.


JANINE: So like everything's extended a little, like just one extra set on- yeah, I noticed them while washing my face [Ali laughs]. I want to say the last thing we did was like, something big in the world had changed, and I think it was, it was like trains right? It changed our routine, so now we can travel around a lot more?


ALI: Ohhh, yeah yeah yeah. Uh huh.


JANINE: One last thing, we should recap our active stuff. Our active Skills. 


ALI: Oh right. 


JANINE: Are, Congenial.


ALI: Still.


JANINE: Unearthly- what? 


ALI: Still!


JANINE: Yeah we still have Congenial, we haven’t even checked it! [Ali chuckles] We're congenial and we've never used it.


ALI: Wow.


JANINE: Unearthly Patience, Well-travelled. We’ve checked Ashamed, Cautious. We haven’t checked Poaching, so we still have that free. We've checked Wolf Projection. [Ali laughs] We have I Control the Beast, Ravenous, and we've checked our Trapping Skill.


ALI: Okay. And checked Skills are like things that we still have but can't use… mechanically.


JANINE: Yeah, so if it says check a Skill, you can't double check it, like this is already, the only thing you can do with this is cross it off basically.


ALI: Okay.


JANINE: So our Resources at the moment- we've had to get rid of a lot of stationary ones, which is a shame, because we had some pretty good ones.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: And also our horse died, which is a shame.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: So we have our Heirloom dress still, we have A wide straw hat,


ALI: [laughs] That’s true!


JANINE: And- oh we have we have Servitors of the Lineage,


ALI: Oooh!


JANINE: That's our- that's our the family of- 


ALI: Oh still, okay.


JANINE: Yeah. And we have our Werewolf protector. Because these are not stationary.


ALI: Right right right. 


JANINE: I mean I guess you could argue depending- you could argue like if they were deeply entrenched in the village that maybe they're stationary? But I don't think we ever set that up so. 


ALI: Yeah. 


JANINE: They're still around. They're floating around, they just might not be close. Surviving people- surviving Characters. Most of our mortals are dead because a lot of time has passed. 


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: Alright we've got- so we've got Daphne Cross the vampire hunter, who is psychically sensitive to us. And we've got Werewolf.
ALI: True.


JANINE: Who ate our horse but is cool now. We have Clotilde who is our sire, who can turn into a sick-ass wolf.


ALI: Right.


JANINE: And we have Clara Smith, who was the local wheat farmer, who we sort of freaked out on and turned into a vampire, and she's presumably still out there. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Somewhere being mad at us, we're like rivals. [Ali chuckles] Although we don't remember that, [laughs] there's the thing, we don't remember her or being rivals. But she is out there and maybe she remembers being rivals. Who could say? 


Do we have… alright we do have five active Memories but two of them are full, so. We'll probably need to cross stuff out soon. We are also in the 60s and these prompts start saying game over in the 70s.


ALI: So the dice are really gonna-


JANINE: Full on the game is over, the game is over, the game is over- I guess, yeah. It starts at… [flips page] 72. So we’re about 10 prompts- but also we could just move backwards, so, who knows how this will go.


ALI: Dice is going to tell us.


JANINE: Yeah. [Ali chuckles] We'll find out. We'll get our dice here. [shakes dice] Give them a good shake. [rolls dice]So that's gonna move us ahead five. Because again, to refresh on the rules here, the thing you do to move around is you take your D10 and your D6, and you subtract the D6 from the D10. If it's negative you move back, if it's positive to move forward. If it's zero you just answer the next prompt in the chunk. 


ALI: And that was a ten and a five.


JANINE: Yeah. So get rid of this bookmark. Okay one two… three four five. Language itself leaves you behind. People discuss concepts you cannot grasp using tools you cannot understand. How is this problem dramatically made manifest? Create a character who will teach you a Skill to help offset this disadvantage. That's interesting. 


ALI: Oh wow


JANINE: It's interesting also getting this one right after the train one right?


ALI: [laughs] Yeah.


JANINE: So it's like language is maybe- the language it's leaving us behind is… hm. I'm wondering if it should be like a technological language, or if it should be sort of a time-based language. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Because like the other thing that comes in around trains is like, better lighting and stuff like that at night? And the way people related to time was a bit different because it wasn't as focused on daylight anymore?


ALI: Oh sure sure sure. Yeah I mean it feels like it could be a thing of like we spent like centuries in a forest right,


JANINE: That’s true, yeah.


ALI: And as we're trying to re-assimilate into civilization, like the dialect has like left us behind at this point. 


[03:30:00]


But like basic structure-


JANINE: Right!


ALI: Like how people speak, has been like-


JANINE: That’s true, so we might just be speaking like a really old, you know, like that kind of thing like when you read Chaucer and you're like, I understand a third of this at best [Ali laughs]. It's probably not that dire if because we've already done some stuff in town.


ALI: Sure. 


JANINE: But- but it also makes sense that like, the language that we have… we spent centuries in that forest right?


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: And have only started speaking after that.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: We’ve only been back with people after that. Before that our greatest contact with people was like in a rural village in a different country, what might have been three, four, five hundred years ago.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: So yeah I think it makes a lot of sense that it is just probably that we speak in a really dated way that like, people can't understand us super easily? And also the things that they are concerned about, we don't really have those words right? That makes sense. How is this problem dramatically made manifest? Create a Character who will teach you a Skill. Okay.
I bet this would actually manifest on the train?


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: Quite a lot? Because there is a lot about trains that involves, like—it's not about travelling—that involves a lot of like efficient communication right?


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: And if you can't communicate super efficiently, it's a much harder thing to do.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: So I'm going to say I struggle to communicate. Oh man. [Ali laughs] 


ALI: That's one of those words or just a bunch of wiggles for a little bit.


JANINE: It’s just a bunch of wiggles. I know a lot of people can't read cursive writing anymore? 


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: And I was really tempted to print for this for the sake of legibility. But it was a thing of like, if I'm doing all this vampire shit. [Ali laughs] I'm writing with a pen that looks like this, in a book that looks like this, I kind of need to go all the way and do the cursive.


ALI: Right. There's a but that's also an audio element to this, so.


JANINE: Yes, yeah- I'm trying to make sure I read everything as well, because I know so many people can't read cursive anymore, because I don't think they have taught it in schools for a while now. Also cursive's just really fun too! It's just fun to write in cursive, I don't know [Ali laughs].


Anyway, I struggle to communicate efficiently [slowly as she writes] while traveling. My way of speaking is dated and meandering and I lack vocabulary for much of what I see here now.


Yeah, like imagine if you had lived in the woods since 1483 or whatever.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: And then you—probably earlier than that—but and then you came out and like saw a clock for the first time, right? Like, what would you call it? Would your village even have a sundial? Like maybe? I don't know?


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: But like it doesn't even- a clock doesn't even really look like a sundial that much.


ALI: Or like yeah, or you see someone using like a letter opener on the train, and you're like what. [laughs] Or like, you know just things like that.


JANINE: Yeah. 


ALI: Or even just like talking about currency.


JANINE: Mhm.


ALI: Or being like, I'd like to buy a bagel like, how does that? It's a hurdle for sure.


JANINE: So, who would be… we need to create a mortal Character who teaches us a skill to get over this. So who should a mortal Character be, that would teach us-?


ALI: [exhales] Yeah, um.


JANINE: I met, blank blank blank. 


ALI: It feels like it would definitely be someone who is like on, who's like travelling often. But I don't know that I want it to be like somebody who works on the train so much, but.


JANINE: Yeah. I was going to say like a, did—I don't know if—did they… were cigarette girls just like a theater thing? [Ali laughs] Were there cigarette girls on trains?


ALI: You know what Janine, through the power of our imagination if we want a cigarette girl to be here, we can say that. [laughs] We're entitled to make that decision.


JANINE: It feels like there must have been like a… like a someone, selling stuff. 


ALI: Yeah. Maybe not just cigarettes, maybe like snacks and the like.


JANINE: Can't call someone a snack girl.


ALI: No. [laughs]


JANINE: Probably not. I could just say like a, you know. A girl selling cigarettes and candy- do they even have-? They… when are cigarettes invented, that's another question. Is this pipe-only times?


ALI: I feel like they've been around for a little bit though. Maybe not like pre-rolled though.


JANINE: Yeah, that's true. Well that- [Ali chuckles] She could be like a girl working at the tobacconist- was that a- that was a thing back then right? Like a person who would sell tobacco, and newspapers and… it's kind of like the birth of the the newsstand, right? Where it's like… it's a thing, like! [Ali laughs] You’re making me think like I’m making it up.


ALI: I just think that like, meeting a woman after being a wolf who's lived in the woods for like 500 years, and having her introduce herself as a tobacconist [wheezes], who really is like, okay I got to learn some things, I'm gonna- [laughs with Janine] wait a minute.


JANINE: That's a good point though, like. Now that I'm thinking about it, someone who works at a news stand at a train station, would be a fixture, like someone that you would go to often. And also someone that you would like potentially need to interact with for various reasons, but also would walk up there and be like, I don't know what two what two-thirds of this is.


ALI: Right.


JANINE: Like a whole bunch of this stuff is completely unfamiliar to me. These newspapers I have no idea what they're talking about. I've never heard of any of these countries before even, because they're all like they've all changed since the last time I knew what countries were, whatever? 


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: Like, that seems like a pretty meaningful-


ALI: Right.


JANINE: Sorry what were you gonna say?


ALI: It feels like the sort of person you would also spend time with, like I'm gonna chat this person up while waiting for the train, so it's like natural that like a relationship would develop.


JANINE: Yeah, yeah. 


ALI: Enough that she would teach us a skill.


JANINE: I don't know that this person would actually be called a tobacconist [Ali laughs] in this vague period we're alluding to where trains are new? I don't know if they would have even been there. But I just like the word tobacconist so much.


ALI: Sure.


JANINE: I don't even know if I'm saying it right- I'm spelling it right? Because I'm going to write it down, but you know what? I wrote bab- that's the problem, [Ali laughs] that's the problem with cursive is you make one wrong little twist of the pen and it's a completely different letter. Tobacconist?


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Maybe the thing is like, they start talking about news stories or something.


ALI: Oh sure.


JANINE: You know this is like, before like newspaper newspapers, but probably in the time of like… this would have been after like satirical cartoons and like, I want to say this is around when people start being like, the sensational story of the barn murderer [Ali chuckles] in such and such county, learn all about it! And then there's like a drawing of a woman screaming in a barn like that kind of- 


ALI: Right.


JANINE: It feels kind of like that era?


ALI: And then like act of her talking about it, plus being like a like a one-sheet newspaper or whatever, the combination of like being able to hear and write- or hear and read at the same time, might… 


JANINE: Yeah.


[writing pause] 


Okay so now we need a- hmm… [flips page] new Character and a Skill. Our tobacconist- I'm just gonna I'm just gonna save myself the heartache this time. [clicking sounds] I'm gonna open my phone,


ALI: [chuckles] Yeah.


JANINE: And go to fake person generator. 


ALI: Oooh!


JANINE: I think this is different than the normal fake person generator I use, but I don't remember what the URL for that one is. Okay, so this suggested someone named Elton O'connor which I think is a great name for a tobacconist,


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Even though I was originally thinking like a cute lady.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: [writing sounds + pause] I'm gonna go he/him. Again I have to write this word out. [Ali snorts] Tobacconist-? I don’t fucking know. And for skill I feel like, what's the word for when you're like really up on current events? Is there a word for that?


ALI: Oh, um…


JANINE: Either… Up on current events? Which-


ALI: That's like,


JANINE: Which-


ALI: Like, meatier than Trendy.


JANINE: Yeah. I might just write Up on current events. 


ALI: Yeah. And we will know what it means when we-


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: Read it.


JANINE: Okay. Pen goes in the holder. Sorry, my sleeves are in a weird spot on my arm, it's very uncomfortable. Okay. So. Give our dice another roll here [shakes and rolls dice]. That's a six minus one, so then move ahead another five- we might literally be done this in like-


ALI: Oooh.


JANINE: Two or three turns.


ALI: Ohh..!


JANINE: I don't know if that'll push us there. Oh we're- we're gonna be… three four five! [Ali gasps] We're right on that first one! [Ali laughs] It's amazing! I kept saying two turns as like a joke. [Ali still laughing] Like uh, it could be over two turn- and I was like, I don't know if that math even works out.


ALI: Well.


JANINE: And sure enough. 


ALI: Here's the math.


JANINE: You were caught outside and destroyed. [Ali gasps] What happened? The game is over.


ALI: Wow.


JANINE: Two turns. We could have just pushed through- I mean who knows how I would have rolled, that's the thing is like, I can say we could have just pushed through, there's no-


ALI: Yeah, no way.


JANINE: That's what I would have rolled, that's impossible to-


ALI: The humidity is different today, you know.


JANINE: Yeah!


ALI: Your hands are differently rested, like the the dice would not have-


JANINE: Yeah! [Ali chuckles] Fuck, that’s very- that's so fucking funny though. So yeah, you were caught outside and destroyed, what happened, the game is over.


ALI: Wow. I mean we were hunted, right?


JANINE: I think Daphne caught us at the train station? Or like, maybe Daphne… I mean here's the thing about a tobacconist, right, is they're like out in the open. If you're looking for someone at a train station, you're probably gonna ask the tobacconist, “hey have you seen a person who looks like blank.” And then if you're that tobacconist you're gonna say, “yeah they come here
every day and I read them the newspaper.” 


ALI: [chuckles] Yeah. Elton has no reason to lie.


JANINE: Man, that’s so sad! [Ali laughs] Elton doesn't know we're a vampire you know! 


ALI: Yeah…


JANINE: He just like- Daphne just shows up, Daphne at this stage is probably fairly up there. Maybe she's like I'm looking for my daughter, you know? 


ALI: Right.


JANINE: My daughter keeps running away on the train and I'm worried about her, and Elton's like, [Ali chuckles] I'm a- I'm a god-fearing citizen, I believe that that mothers should be able to- to mind their daughters in a way that's extremely obnoxious. To make sure they don't get into any trouble.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Being single women and all. [Ali chuckles] 


[03:45:00]


Now I'm villainizing Elton, I apologize to Elton. He didn't deserve that. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: We said he was a friend and then I turned on him so quickly.


ALI: This- you know, Elton was trying to do the right thing, but sold us out to a hunter.


JANINE: Yeah.


ALI: And we were destroyed, is that what just-? [laughs]


JANINE: Destroyed.


ALI: You were destroyed. Yowza.


JANINE: Daphne found me through- I think it's also really fitting that I can now put this in what is our last like Memory chunk.


ALI: Yeah. 


JANINE: The last entry- the last Memory chunk.


ALI: Wow.


JANINE: She lied and said she was my concerned mother. I also just love the idea of a vampire hunter who's been hunting a vampire for her entire life, basically [Ali chuckles] aging above the vampire's visible age.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: And suddenly being like, oh actually here's this other angle I can take.


Elton told her when I would be there. She waited- [short pause]


I wonder does Daphne follow us home or does Daphne just like push us in front of the train? [Ali laughs] Is that too dark? 


ALI: Ooof.


JANINE: I feel like that would kill a vampire.


ALI: Wh- um… I mean it's not one of the traditional ways, but.


JANINE: No, but it's bad. 


ALI: There's enough destruction there I think that it might, yeah. I- [chuckles]


JANINE: Also like maybe… I mean if we're taking the train during the day, maybe we're like waiting in the station with an umbrella- and with like a parasol, and we like sneak out on the train, and like pull the shade and stuff.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: But like if she pushes us out in full daylight.


ALI: Oh sure, the sun plus the train is a very lethal combo.


JANINE: God you know- [Ali chuckles] have you ever seen Interview with the Vampire?


ALI: I haven’t.


JANINE: Oh no! 


ALI: [laughs] I apologize.


JANINE: Oh okay, well there’s- have you seen Buffy? 


ALI: No, actually-


JANINE: Any Buffy?


ALI: I've seen the movie, I haven't seen the show.


JANINE: You know what that's okay actually, [Ali laughs] I almost wish that was me. I'm- so I'm just thinking of a vampire who hits the sun, turns to ash, and then a train explodes the ash heap- the ash like statue, you know?


ALI: Oh. 


JANINE: Sometimes a vampire show, they'll show like, the vampire turns to ash like perfectly as they are. 


ALI: Right right right.


JANINE: Like and then, and it's just like takes a touch or something, and they- they like explode.


ALI: That's- that's how it happened I guess..! [chuckles]


JANINE: I just think it's a cool image. It's also a little less like gruesome than just the train-


ALI: Right, yeah. I mean that's that's a great one-two step from Daphne there. [chuckles]


JANINE: Yeah, fuck. So she's like what, fucking, 70-year-old woman? Taking down vampires? Good on her. 


ALI: Yeah. Kudos. [giggles]


JANINE: That’s some real girlboss, [Ali laughs] gatekeep, gaslight- literally gaslight. Gaslight girlboss.


ALI: Yeah true.


JANINE: At the train gate.


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: Well, okay! I guess [laughs] this is getting tacked on to the- the first part. Alright.


ALI: Well, yeah.


JANINE: That's the story of- we gotta run through the whole name list. Elise Foreman aka Ada, aka Marrow, aka Mary, aka Marie. We ended up on Marie.


ALI: Rest in peace, Marie.


JANINE: Rest in peace Marie. You had a good run. You spent a lot of it in the forest, but. 


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: I think most of us at this point are with you on- on that choice.


ALI: I feel like that was a responsible choice for most of those years of just being like, I'm gonna go to the forest, I'm gonna try to work this out.


JANINE: yeah.


ALI: I'm gonna try to not want blood anymore. But you know it doesn't- you know.


JANINE: And it’s- it's so wild to me that like, we got to where I think the traditional vampire story is like, the most powerful vampires are the ones that are like, almost above hunger, and they can sort of do all this like, all this psychic whatever stuff. And like, we got to this point where we had like transcended our vampire body.


ALI: Mhm


JANINE: Our like monstrous—the game does describe as monstrous—like our monstrous prison of need and whatever, that- that was not a thing we chose of course, and then went back. Like and- we got to that point but that wasn't the end. The end was no, we're hungry again, we're going back into the city, like. We reached what is what feels like vampire godhood, and then turned around.


ALI: Uh huh. Well things happen.


JANINE: Which is really interesting! 


ALI: Yeah. 


JANINE: Yeah! Look you know, [Ali giggles] sometimes, sometimes you really enjoy the forest, and the forest brings out the best in you, and then a mob drives you out of it because you've been haunting their nightmares.


ALI: Right. 


JANINE: And calling yourself Marrow, which is terrifying.


ALI: Mmm.


JANINE: And you know that's that's how it works out sometimes.


ALI: In real life- wait, go back to that last page, because I just have a question, like.


JANINE: Mhm?


ALI: In real life, is that ink like as much of a gradient as it looks like on the screen? Because the top of it looks very black and then the bottom of it looks like close to red.


JANINE: So this is when the pen was completely full.


ALI: Ohhh!


JANINE: And freshly filled, and then the pen has been- because I have um, pen top. [Ali chuckles] 


ALI: Well we're here.


JANINE: I have a converter in the pen.


ALI: Ohh..!


JANINE: So it's like a little screw top one, so I just fill it directly from the bottle?


ALI: Right.


JANINE: But as you can sort of see [Ali gasps]—yeah you can see—it's like mostly empty now.


ALI: And it brings out the red in the ink when it's… 


JANINE: Yeah- I mean when there's more ink in the pen and also when you fresh- I think the other thing is like, when you freshly filled it, it's a little bit juicier just like around the tip?


ALI: Oh sure sure sure.


JANINE: Yeah this ink is also, it looks a lot more purple on this paper I think because of the yellow, and like this paper- this isn't the lighting, this paper is actually very orangey.


ALI: Yeah okay.


JANINE: This is why I picked this notebook for this [Ali giggles] because it's got this sort of like modeled, parchment-y look to it? I wanted- I was really tempted to get one that was like had paper like this but wasn't lined, but I knew I would drive myself crazy-


ALI: Ohhh!


JANINE: -if I had to right on unlined paper that much. 


ALI: I would not draw on unlined paper [chuckles] on camera.


JANINE: Exactly, right? On white paper it's much more red, but.


ALI: Okay. Well it looks it looks very nice. This was fun. [giggles]


JANINE: Yeah. This was fun. Thank you so much for joining me! 


ALI: I had a blast.


JANINE: I- this is gonna be a weird one to cut together, but I hope that once I've done that, people will- will enjoy this slightly weird and different thing. 


So, we've been playing Thousand Year Old Vampire by Tim Hutchings. You can get it at timhuntings—and that’s hutchings with a g—dot itch dot io (timhutchings.itch.io), and there is a whole bunch of free stuff- Thousand Year Old Vampire the PDF costs fifteen dollars. The hardback I want to say is forty..? 


I'm double checking… I'm double checking on thousandyearoldvampire.com, which is where you can get the physical books, and also like dice and enamel pins.


ALI: Oooh!


JANINE: Supplemental materials and other games, including Our Vacation, which is a game about lining up words with vacation photos to kind of tell that story. It looks really cool and I kind of want to play that. Thousand Year Old Vampire book plus PDF is $45, if you want this- this uh hardback which is, honestly I-


ALI: It’s so pretty.


JANINE: You know, it's so pretty. I don't buy a lot of a lot of physical game books, because so much of what we do is play things by the computer.


ALI: Mhm.


JANINE: That like PDFs tend to make more sense. But I'm really glad I picked this one up. I, I  just think it's so like, so much love went into this you know?


ALI: Yeah.


JANINE: It's that kind of thing where just, you can tell this was someone's like, really like their passion project. So it's a real- it's a real treat.


So yeah again that's thousandyearoldvampire.com or timhutchings.itch.io. t-i-m h-u-t-c-h-i-n-g-s. So thanks so much to Tim for making this cool game. Ali, thank you so much for joining me, where can people find you?


ALI: Yeah you can find me over @ali_west on Twitter, you can find the show over at @Friends_Table, and thanks for having me, this was a blast!


JANINE: Yeah. Also a huge thank you to Jack de Quidt at @notquitereal on Twitter, for producing the spooky theme for this [Ali chuckles] live- not-quite-live.


And of course I’m Janine Hawkins, you can find me at @bleatingheart. So yeah, take care.


ALI: Bye!


[Music begins: “An End to Partings” by Jack de Quidt]


[end of Live at the Table]