Live at the Table: Unincorporated Pt. 2
Transcriber: vesta
Introduction        1
Recap [0:08:44]        11
Ali’s Second Scene [0:27:00]        24
Sylvi’s Second Scene [0:44:57]        39
Janine’s Second Scene [1:02:29]        53
Keith’s Second Scene [1:22:54]        70
Ali’s Final Scene [1:47:32]        95
Sylvi’s Final Scene [2:14:07]        122
Janine’s Final Scene [2:33:18]        141
Keith’s Final Scene [2:47:50]        153
Introduction
Keith: [laughs]
Sylvi: God. Damn it!
Janine: [laughs]
Keith: Were we— were we muted for that?
Ali: [chuckling] I think— yeah, I think— [laughs]
Janine and Keith: No!!!
Ali: Hello everybody, I’m being scolded for—
Keith: Almost— almost had a backup going! Almost.
Janine: Oh… that’s— I feel like we just like, lost a ring in a toilet.
Ali: Wow, what?
Keith: This is— not since “who’s that big man?” has there been such a tragedy.
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: [chuckles] We are just going to be dropping Yukon Gold references randomly.
Keith: [laughs] Not since “bored dead”— [Ali laughs] that’s from that same thing with the— with “who’s that big man?”
Sylvi: Oh okay. I don’t think— I wasn’t there for that.
Keith: No, that was even more exclusive.
Sylvi: Yeah. [Ali giggles] Before they let the riff-raff in.
Keith: Yeah, even Sylvi doesn’t know about “bored dead”
Ali: Yeah… we should go back to that game, what was that game?
Keith: Guild Wars 2?
Ali: Guild Wars— yeah, let’s [laughs] [Sylvi laughs] Yeah!
Sylvi: I’ve got friends who still play Guild Wars.
Ali: Yeah! We were doing like a, like a hunt—
Janine: Oh my god.
Keith: Yeah, so the thing that Guild Wars 2 used to have, was a boss train? Where everyone knew the exact order the bosses spawned in? 
Janine: Right, the train! Oh my god.
Ali: Uh huh, yeah.
Sylvi: I remember that.
Keith: And so— so you just warped to where the next boss was going to be, and like farmed XP super fast. But it was so much fun that they had to get rid of it. [Ali and Sylvi laughs]
Janine: Yeah that’s probably why, yeah.
Sylvi: I don’t think I can play an MMO ever again, if I’m being honest.
Ali: Wow.
Keith: It’s like, only kind of an MMO, and also—
Janine: I really like the new trending MMOs where it’s— there’s no one but you, but it’s still an online game that’s huge. [Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah!
Sylvi: Like why would I bother?
Janine: That’s okay for me.
Keith: You’re describing— you’re describing Genshin.
Janine: [chuckling] I’m describing a lot of games, including Genshin.
Keith: That’s the big one though, right?
Sylvi: I wanna go back to Maple Story.
Janine: That’s the big one.
Keith: You wanna go back to what?
Janine: People still like Maple Story, right?
Sylvi: Maple Story.
Keith: Oh. I’ve never—
Janine: It’s on the front page of Steam, all the time.
Sylvi: Let’s go.
Keith: I haven’t liked an MMO since Priston Tale!
Ali: Wow.
Keith: That’s when it started going downhill.
Janine: Oh, I know that.
Sylvi: You dropped that the way you drop like, regional Rhode Island stuff.
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: It— you know, that’s how it felt.
Janine: Love to drink in my cabin while I play some Priston Tale.
Keith: At the end of the day, what’s the difference between Priston Tale and a nice onion Saugy?
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi: Damn! Man you’re gonna have to— you’re gonna have to tell me.
Ali: Munch.
Keith: Nothing.
Sylvi: Okay!
Keith: Nothing’s the difference. Saugy is a kind of regional Rhode Island hot dog.
Sylvi: Oh— just what I would’ve guessed, yeah!
Keith: S-A-U-G-Y. If you’ve ever had like a—
Sylvi: S— wait, Mrs. Saugy. Missi-saugy?
Keith: Excuse me?
Ali: Huh?
Sylvi: Don’t worry, that’s a bit—
Janine: That’s a Canada joke.
Sylvi: It’s a Canada joke.
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: You wouldn’t get it, it’s a Canada thing?
Sylvi: Cause like, the soft-G instead of the hard-G?
Janine: Yeah, no.
Keith: Saugies have a natural casing of English sheep intestine? And they are beef and pork hot dogs, they’re really good, and they are the second of the two major Rhode Island hot dogs. The other one of course being the New York System.
Ali: Mmm. Mhm.
Keith: Slash—
Janine: You are describing a sausage.
Keith: The New York System aka the hot wiener.
Ali: Mhm.
Sylvi: I love—
Janine: That’s all of them.
Sylvi: —the Keith regionalisms [Keith: Yeah.] [Ali chuckles] like, genuinely so much. Like, I can like— I feel like a graphic appearing in my mind while I get a powerpoint presentation, Kurapika style.
Keith: Connecting the dots. Okay Saugie relates to hot wiener, but isn’t hot wiener.
Sylvi: Yeah! I’m always talking about that.
Janine: I—sorry, just real quick—pulled up Maple Story on Steam?
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvi: Yeah?
Janine: And I got a few lil’—just a few lil’ clips to share from the reviews. DarkThree says, “Dog-ass company!”
Ali: [snorts]
Sylvi: Damn!
Keith: [laughs]
Janine: All potential is gone as long as this game is owned by Nexon.
Sylvi: Wow!
Ali: Wow.
Keith: This—
Janine: BassaRobLiota says, “They’re removing my favourite character, Beast Tamer from the game—”
Sylvi: What!
Janine: “Nexon doesn’t care about this game or its players.”
Sylvi: I can’t believe they’re removing Beast Tamer, I love that guy! 
Janine: Bills—sorry Blizzord, I thought it said Billzord.
Sylvi: Way better name.
Janine: [chuckles] “Cause the company lies about drop rates for paid items, some are not even possible to get. Do not support them.” Sounds great, sounds like things are going great over on Maple Story. [Ali wheezes]
Keith: Speaking of old MMOs, this reminds me, my cousin, Ted, has a friend [Ali snorts] who recently started working— recently started working at EverQuest.
Ali: What! [laughs]
Sylvi: Wow!
Keith: My cousin’s friend is like, working for Darkpaw Games, and is working on EverQuest.
Janine: Darkpaw?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Wow.
Sylvi: That’s my favourite Warrior Cat.
Janine: I bet that is a Warrior Cat.
Sylvi: I bet it is!
Janine: That’s a real one.
Keith: Definitely a Warrior Cat villain name. Probably from [intense whispering] Fire Clan.
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: Fire Clan are the good guys, I think.
Keith: Oh, I don’t know, they sound bad because of the fire—
Janine: Darkpaw is a Warrior Cat.
Sylvi: I’m thinking of Shadow Clan, actually.
Keith: Shadow Clan! Yeah, that sounds more bad than fire— [Sylvi: Mhm!] fire is bad unless you’ve got shadow. And then shadow is the new bad.
Sylvi: It all goes back to shadow.
Janine: Or— Darkpaw’s also Sky Clan. Not Fire Clan, Sky Clan.
Keith: Sky Clan? [Ali wheezes] What did they do?
Janine: I don’t know.
Sylvi: I thought they were the good ones.
Keith: I always thought that Thunder Clan were the good guys.
Sylvi: What’s up, Ali?
Ali: [wheezing] Are you guys going to go into the Roll20—?
Sylvi: I’m there! I’ve been there!
Keith: Sorry I was looking at—
Janine: Am I–? Oh, whoops.
Keith: I thought that I was there. Do you wanna do a podcast right now? Do you just do ninety minutes of this?
Sylvi: It’s called riffing!
Ali: I— [laughs]
Keith: Ali, when do we just get to—
Janine: I have root beer, what do we think about root beer?
Keith: I’m a big fan of root beer.
Ali: We’re gonna riff in-character! We spoke about this before, it’s— [howls with laughter]
Sylvi: This is true.
Janine: This is all just break room talk. This is— we’re just in the break room.
Ali: This is true, yeah.
Keith: Yeah. This is— yeah, just pretend that that was in-character.
Janine: Having a break.
Ali: [laughs] I did not participate because of course, I am stuck in Eorzea.
Keith: I remember for a really long time, thinking that the— the— oh, I lost my train of thought. [Ali laughs] No, nevermind. We’re— we’re done. We’re good.
Janine: [chuckles] Alright!
Keith: And that’s how you start a show!
Sylvi: The spirit left Keith’s body in the middle of that sentence. [Ali wheezing] Just like, it’s gone now.
Keith: Look.
Sylvi: He’s moved on to the other side, it’s fine.
Ali: It happens! You know, we’ve all been there.
Sylvi: Yeah absolutely, I’m frequently possessed and sent away.
Keith: Maybe I lost my train of thought, maybe I decided against saying what I was going to say, and decided it was an off-the-air conversation, [Ali: Mmm.] who knows!
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Who could guess, I— truly.
Ali: Uh huh. Uh huh. Well hi, everybody.
Janine: I’m looking at this ad for dynamic lighting.
Ali: Oooh! Yeah—
Janine: In Roll20.
Ali: I, it’s so weird that Austin pays for this, and how often we’re playing [Sylvi: Yeah.] Austin-run games, that when I see an ad I’m like, what is this— what are we doing? What is happening here?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvi: Excuse— don’t you know who I am?
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: I have three-hundred hours in your app. [Ali: Yeah!] How dare you advertise at me.
Ali: Oh, I have—
Sylvi: I’m a power user!
Ali: I’m— you know what, I have— I’m pretty sure I have three-hundred hours. I think they should do ads based on hours, actually.
Sylvi: That’s—
Keith: That the longer you use the app, the fewer ads you get?
Ali: Uh huh, yeah! I think that I’ve outgrown the need for ads on Roll20.
[Keith laughs] 
[Ali wheezes]
Keith: Sure, when it was new—!
Janine: Maybe on hour three-oh-one, it’s like “I could use some of that lighting”.
Keith: It’s funny that you say that, because you actually didn’t have ads for any of that time. This is your first time [Janine laughs] seeing the ads.
Ali: Oh… you got me. [wheezes]
Keith: Nice try!
Ali: Yeah, uh huh.
Sylvi: Sorry, nevermind. [Ali giggles] Someone in the chat— Happy Birthday Leorio, is what someone in the chat—
Keith: Happy Birthday Leorio!
Ali: Happy Birthday!
Sylvi: Close personal friend.
Recap [0:08:44]
Ali: Today, to celebrate Leorio’s birthday, [chuckles] [Janine laughs] we are continuing our game of—
Janine: We planned it ahead. Surprise!
Ali: Unincorporated, by Ethan Harvey, which you can find on ethanharvey.twitch.io. We—
Janine: What?
Ali: What?
Janine: ethanharvey.twitch.io? [chuckles]
Ali: Oh I said Twitch, not Itch— I meant itch. It’s weird how those are similar, right?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Janine: [chuckles] No!
Ali: Yes! [wheezes]
[Janine laughs]
Keith: Never have been similar.
Sylvi: Uncanny valley here.
Keith: The one that I do is Steam and stream. I’m always confusing Steam and stream. [Ali chuckles]
Ali: But one is an app and one is a thing that you do.
Keith: Twitch stream, but I’ll play the game on Steam. It’s so confusing!
Ali: [wheezes] Yeah, I guess that would mess you up. Regardless, today we are continuing our game of Unincorporated. And we didn’t get tired last time! Last time we set up our grocery store. We made this map that people can see down over here. I’m very thankful for this selection that Sylvi made, because I— 
Sylvi: Yeah, no worries! No problem! I knew it would be a problem if we didn’t!
Ali: [laughs] We have our prep/goth/jock/nerd chart over here. And—
Janine: Our prep/goth/jock/nerd cast right here.
Ali: Indeed! Yes, indeed. All our characters— I guess we wanna go over our characters again? Just to get back into the swing of things?
Keith: No.
[Sylvi, Ali, Keith all laugh]
Sylvi: Yeah! Listen to the last one, don’t be a fake fan!
Ali: Yeah, uh huh, okay, sure. Keith, it’s your scene, or whatever. I think you ended last time—
Janine: We should actually go over—
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: We should—
Keith: Yes, we should.
Ali: Yeah, hi. So my name is Ali. You might know me from Friends at the Table. Tonight I’m playing Maddie Frank. Her position in the grocery store, I’ve decided, is a PM keyholder? I— [wheezes] my situation in-game right now, is that I was paid for a [laughs] upcycled piece of furniture with a scratch-off, from an old lady hippie named Denise. And I was like hey, I’d love to exchange this scratch-off with my ex, Eddy Legge, [wheezes] who works at the lottery counter. But it was broken, or something happened, and I wasn’t able to get my money. But I was given fifty dollars— [wheezes] in exchange for my watch, as collateral for the scratch-off. That’s about it for me right now.
Sylvi: I can go next.
Ali: Sure! [chuckles]
Keith: I love that.
Sylvi: Hello, I’m Sylvi. You may know me from Friends at the Table. [Ali chuckles] My character is Jennifer, or Jenny Gibson. She works at the bakery. I also like—that’ll come up in a second, cause I was thinking about something, I was like, maybe this doesn’t make as much sense— [Ali wheezes] my current situation right now, the big stuff, is I stole a book from the library that’s in the grocery store about like, I think I just described it as about demonology or something, to give it to my best buddy, Nathan.
Keith: [grunts]
Ali: [snorts and wheezes]
Sylvi: Because we’re— he thinks we’re— [Ali stifles laughter] he believes in witchcraft again— that really fucked me up! [Ali laughs] And wants to do a ritual about, about the vampire fifth-grade teacher we used to have. And we’re gonna be doing that ritual on Wednesday, cause it’s— yeah. The thing about me, the bakery thing I wanted to bring up, is that maybe I also pick up shifts just doing like stock clearing and stuff like that? Because I, my hook about the library book is that I took it after work, or I guess it could be before work, that I got there too early and this vampire woman was leaving or something, and saw me. But it’s supposed to be Ali’s— we can figure it out later. But this has been on my mind, because these are things I think about.
Ali: I— yeah! I don’t know that we have to be— your shift can be when it is, [Sylvi: Okay, cool!] and you can be there for whenever—
Keith: Is the concern that you were supposed to go when the library was closed, and you broke in?
Sylvi: I think so? Yeah?
Keith: I just assumed that you like, like put it behind your back and ran out.
Sylvi: That’s fine— [Ali laughs] let’s just do that! Let’s just do that. That solves every problem that I’ve been having. Cool.
Keith: Yeah, I never— I never thought personally, that you were breaking and entering in the first scene?
Sylvi: I just have— the things like this become little splinters in my brain, so this just happens, you know? Not in a bad way, just in like a—
Keith: Like neutral splinters.
Sylvi: Like a— yeah, exactly. That’s it from me.
Janine: I’m Janine. You might know me from this? 
Keith: What is this?
Janine: I’m playing—this. I’m playing this, and you know me from this. I’m playing Eddy Legge. Or “Legg-e”. The family chooses to pronounce it “Leg”, but if you look up a pronunciation guide, it probably says “Legg-e”. And he works at the lottery counter, he/him. He has a pig named Meatball at home. And is secretly learning guitar. [Sylvi chuckles] He’s Maddie’s ex. The thing that happened there, was they were dating probably around high school, something, you know? Feels like a— maybe like when you’re nineteen kinda mistake?
Ali: Mmm. [chuckles]
Janine: He was dating her and also someone else, and probably some other people. And was gonna break up with two people at the same time, and got them confused, and one of them was Maddie, and now, she has a degree of power over his job and that’s concerning. Cause he is not a PM keyholder, he’s just a lottery guy. And also, it doesn’t help that I ratted her out to Keith’s character, [Ali chuckles] over the lottery ticket which smelled of beef, which was how we knew that it was originally his.
Sylvi: I forgot the beef smell! [Janine: Uh huh.] That was such a, like a key clue!
Keith: Was key, yeah.
Janine: Yeah, that was a Columbo moment.
Keith: It actually hasn’t— it hasn’t fully materialized as a clue. It’s definitely a clue that is still in progress.
Sylvi: It’s like, if it came out, been like a text-adventure like visual novel or something, the beef smell would be in like yellow text as opposed to white text, you know?
Janine: Mhm.
Keith: Yes, the—
Janine: I mean I did specifically go and smell the ticket.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Janine: That did happen.
Keith: The issue is that Denise Villereal has not smelled the ticket.
Janine: She doesn’t care! [chuckling] Why would she—
Keith: Right! Well she may have noticed— she may have noticed the smell, just from it wafting?
Janine: When was the last time you noticed the smell of a piece of paper in your pocket?
Keith: Well, it was in your hand at some point. You gotta read it. [Ali laughs] You gotta read what the ticket is in your hand. When you take it from your pocket towards your face— 
Janine: Maybe if she was a butcher.
Keith: I’m noticing smells all the time, by the way! 24/7.
Janine: Bragging, okay.
Sylvi: Weird flex.
Keith: This smells like that. This smells like that— why does it smell like orange pith in here, you know? I’m noticing sounds 24/7
Sylvi: Orange what?
Ali: Hmm?
Janine: It’s the white part of the orange.
Sylvi and Ali: Ohhhh.
Janine: He’s double flexing, don’t give him attention for it.
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Damn, both arms.
Ali: Wow.
Janine: Anyway. Nathaniel.
Keith: Hi, my name is Keith. You might know me from Media Club Plus.
Sylvi: Damn, he’s flexing again.
Keith: New episode came out today, you should go—
Sylvi: Oh shit! It dropped?
Keith: Dropped today, yep. Now or— ninety minutes ago, something like that? Maybe an hour ago? That’s good. Episode 14, the Mafia Community! 
Janine: Ohh, that sounds nice!
Sylvi: Oh, yeah, banger!
Keith: Yeah. Oh yeah, they’re friends. They’re all friends and they all get along, and nothing bad happens to all of them.
Janine: [chuckles] They play Bingo? I love that. I love communities.
Keith: They definitely play other kinds of low-stakes gambling. Bingo unconfirmed. I play Nathaniel Munth. He’s a full jock. [Janine chuckles] 
Sylvi: Oh, we should mention our numbers after.
Janine: I’m on a full-jock scholarship.
Keith: He’s on a full-jock scholarship to the grocery store— what’s the name of our grocery store?
Janine: The grocery store in job town.
Sylvi: Mosier’s Grocers.
Janine: Mosier’s Grocers.
Keith: Mosier’s Grocers. Right.
Sylvi: It’s spelled exactly how you think it is.
Keith: Right. [chuckles] And, he does stocking and produce, and— I think I wrote it, I can’t find it on my thing. Wrote it as—
Sylvi: You wrote produce/boxes.
Keith: Produce/boxes, yeah. Boxes, box-moving, yeah. And I’m embroiled in two things. The first thing is the vampire hunt with Jenny. [Sylvi chuckles] That is— that has not really materialized yet. The other thing that hasn’t materialized, is that I’m also supposed to deliver the Goku car to someone. I have [Sylvi: Right!] to decide, where I’m going to guess that I’m supposed to deliver it. It’s either Ned’s Drive-in Picture Show, or to Eddy’s pet pig Meatball.
Sylvi: Yeah, to explain the Goku car—
Janine: Wait, what?
Keith: That was a joke. [Janine: Oh, okay.] It’s an Italian restaurant in the strip mall, right?
Sylvi: It’s like a bar.
Janine: Yeah, Meatballs is a— it’s a former Italian restaurant turned bar.
Keith: Also called Meatballs— oh, former Italian restaurant turned bar.
Janine: Yeah, like there’s probably like grapes painted on the walls, and like weird trim, and a lot of like, ruffly curtains, but then it’s a bar.
Keith: And it is owned by the pig, right?
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Uhhh.
Sylvi: The name would imply that.
Keith: Right.
Janine: The pig is a silent partner.
Sylvi: Ohhh.
Keith: How did he get him to stay so quiet?
Sylvi: Yeah! The Goku car, just so everyone knows, cause I saw some people in the chat being like, oh, I wasn’t here last time—
Keith: Oh! I have a third thing!
Sylvi: Oh you have a third thing? Go ahead, I’ll explain the Goku—
Keith: I lost a scratch ticket— we talked about the scratch ticket, but that scratch ticket was mine.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: It was originally mine, and I’m gonna get it back, [Ali chuckles] and someone took it but Maddie was the one who tried to cash it in. Supposedly, Eddy’s secret guitar teacher/total weirdo [Ali wheezes] got—
Ali: She’s just a lady!
Janine: She’s not my total weirdo, she’s just a total weirdo.
Keith: Well, but she is your guitar teacher.
Janine: Yeah. I mean, no.
Ali: Sometimes you’re just in your late to mid sixties, [Janine: Yeah, she’s—] [Keith laughs] and you’re just—
Janine: I don’t even think she’s a hippie, I think she’s just having— she’s just living life, you know? She’s having fun.
Keith: Is she in her mid sixties? Because—
Janine: She’s probably up there.
Keith: Okay. Because like, maybe she’s like forty—
Janine: She uses the term “girlfriends” to refer to like, the ladies she goes to bunch with, so.
Keith: That’s true.
Janine: I feel like that puts you in a certain bracket.
Sylvi: It does, yeah.
Keith: Anyway, I’ll get that scratch ticket back if it’s the last thing I do. I need it. It’s a thousand bucks, come on.
[Ali wheezes]
Sylvi: Okay, so the Goku car explanation, my neighbor has a Goku— has a shitty Honda Civic that he painted Goku on that he’s been trying to sell for over a year now, and that’s a Goku car. We also— did we talk about the walk-in freezer that has a grip on like multiple of you? [Ali chuckles] I think I’m the only person without a walk-in freezer mention?
Keith: Yeah, so the walk-in freezer for me— well, for Ali, it is an irrational fear of the walk-in freezer, [Ali: Mhm.] which then gets turned into a rumor that the last manager to hide in the walk-in freezer at which for me is part of a tapestry of mysterious deaths around town that can be explained by the presence of vampires.
[Ali stifles laughter]
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Uh huh.
Keith: Thus the demon book!
Ali: Right. Sure, uh huh. Yeah, that was a world fact that really evolved over the course of making characters? And, yeah, I— yeah, so I guess if you weren’t here last time, the basic set-up of this game is that you have a few questions that you answer either alone or as a group, and then even more so as a group towards the end of it, and they’re on the screen here. Who do you admire even though they can’t stand you? Mine is Tom Schneey, the floor supervisor. Where are you afraid to go even though you know it’s irrational? The walk-in freezer. [chuckles] What are you sure nobody will miss if you take it? I wrote a die-cast model car in the next-door accountant window? And then, who have you secretly helped when they needed it? Mrs Cunningham, who is a— [wheezes]
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Alleged vampire librarian, and a former teacher. And then yeah, I am one prep, and one nerd. Even though I feel like I’ve been playing kind of a mean person, which feels like that should be one prep, one jock? But maybe—
Sylvi: There are plenty of mean nerds.
Ali: Yeah, uh huh. So,
Sylvi: Especially in the workplace. 
Ali: [chuckles] Uh huh. Uh huh!
Janine: I kind of feel like any of the extremes in this chart imply a degree of meanness. 
Ali: Sure.
Keith: Yeah. You don’t wanna be a two.
[Ali and Janine chuckle]
Sylvi: Well, I’m a two goth, and a one nerd. Just to follow that up.
Ali: Uh huh. I love this chart, I love looking at it.
Sylvi: It’s great!
Janine: I’m a one jock, one goth.
Keith: As stated, double jock. Two jock. [Ali wheezes] Pure—
Janine: Jocked up.
Sylvi: Max jock, min every else. Like, nothing on anything else, you know where you bread is buttered.
Ali: The ghost obsession—
Keith: [jock voice] It’s on the field!
Ali: [laughs] The ghost obsession stuff doesn’t make you a nerd at all?
Sylvi: It’s how people perceive you, remember?
Keith: Right, it’s about how people perceive you.
Ali: This is true. Okay, this is true, yeah.
Sylvi: That’s a very important thing to mention about this game.
Janine: Also, I do feel like ghost stuff is mainstream in a way now [Ali wheezes] that I don’t think would tip the scale.
Sylvi: Zak Bagans, you know?
Janine: Like someone enjoying Marvel movies. Like, okay. You’re a person in a society, congratulations.
Keith: And, by the rules of the book— by the rules of the book, being a nerd about supernatural stuff would put you in goth. So if anything, [Ali: Oh sure.] if I were to change, it wouldn’t be one less jock towards nerd, it would be to add a goth to my jock.
[Ali wheezes, Keith laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah no, sure. [Ali snorts and laughs, Keith chuckles]
Ali: Okay! Well everybody’s on the same page now, zooming— [laughs] [Keith laughs]
Sylvi: Thank you for laying that out so cleanly.
Ali: [wheezes] [stops wheezing] Playing the game—I’m just gonna read this again, cause we’re back here again. Take turns setting scenes. On your turn, say where the next scene takes place, who’s there, and what’s happening when it starts. The scene can focus on your PC working towards your— your own PC working towards a plot, or you can earn a token by setting a scene that dresses another PC’s plot, or journal—we’ve been keeping a journal but just to go over the scenes. If you do this, you can place your PC in the scene, or you can play as a secondary character, or you can just describe what’s going on around characters. Play out the scene, until the PC does something risky or challenging, or you’re not sure what should happen. At that point, roll a dice to find out what happened next. Perfecto, okay! And I’m, we’re going left to right here? So I’m first. We ended on Keith last time with the—
Keith: Long phone scene.
Ali: [wheezes] Very long— that was your— oh, okay! Eddy’s scene was telling you about the scratch-off ticket, and your scene was—
Keith: Following up.
Ali’s Second Scene [0:27:00]
Ali: Confronting me about it— yeah, okay. Wow, that was a lesson last time, that’s true. [chuckles] Okay. My scene—what should my scene be? Hm. Wha— just to recap, I know we said this recently, but what’s the state of the, the Nate/Jenny plan?
Sylvi: I believe the crux of my scene was, Nate got me to— I’m gonna be skipping work on Wednesday to, we’re going to the woods [Keith: Yeah, yeah.] to do some ritual?
Keith: Kindness magic.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: Practice our magic.
Ali: [wheezes] Okay.
Sylvi: That’ s what we’re doing!
Ali: Okay, perfect. I love that for y’all. 
Sylvi: Me too! 
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: I don’t. I wish this was not happening. It’s not cool to have vampires in your town.
Ali: Oh? 
Sylvi: It’s a real problem we have.
Ali: Oh, I didn’t realize your motivation there was— [chuckles]
Sylvi: Yeah, it’s both of our motivations for sure!
Ali: [laughs] 
Sylvi: I’m a true believer.
Keith: I’m thankful that magic is real and that I can do it. But I would rather this not be happening. [Sylvi and Ali wheeze] It’s scary.
Ali: True, king. I— [wheezes] you know?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Live your truth.
Janine: Imagine holding that in your head alongside “I am owed a thousand dollars imminently”.
[Ali wheezes]
Keith: What, am I not supposed to pay rent because there’s vampires?
Sylvi: Yeah, you know what?
[Janine and Ali laugh]
Keith: Sorry I live in the real world!
Janine: I just think it’s a fascinating psychological profile, that’s all.
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: I’m debating doing a thing with Mrs Cunningham, or being— oh! I could be, I could be Joey Trevino [laughs].
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Ali: And call up Nate, and be like, what’s going on with the car, buddy?
Keith: Would that too easily solve that I don’t know where I’m supposed to take it? Or, do I think you’re lying to me?
Sylvi: It could be— it could be him calling being like, why haven’t you picked it up yet?
Keith: Oh right, this is the seller of the car.
Janine: What— I have an idea, I have an idea. What if he just got his wisdom teeth out, and he’s got cotton balls in his cheeks, and you think he’s a vampire.
[Keith howls with laughter, Ali wheezes]
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Keith: Does that too easily solve anything for ya?
Ali: chuckles]
Keith: This smacks of the undead!
[Janine and Ali chuckle]
Ali: Brrrrrrng brng! Brrrrrrng brng!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh, yeah.
Ali: [wheezing] It’s real— I have to do this?
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: You can put—
Ali: [muffled noises, and then muffled laughter]
Ali (as Joey): Hello?
Janine: Maybe less. Maybe a bit less.
Ali: Okay. Yeah, okay.
Ali (as Joey): [muffled] Hello? Are you there?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Hello?
[Ali wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): [muffled voice] It’s Joey.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh sorry, who’s calling?
Ali (as Joey): It’s Joey.
Keith (as Nathaniel): This is Joey’s phone, who are you?
Ali (as Joey): No no no, I’m Joey. I’m calling Nate.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Speaking.
[Ali wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): What’s up, bro?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh, nothing. What’s up, what’s going on?
Ali (as Joey): You didn’t pick up the car yet.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. I’m at work, like I said.
Ali (as Joey): I know! But like, come out.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s the middle of the day, can’t you come outside?
Ali (as Joey): No bro, I can’t. I’m hurting extremely. Because I’m on medication. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Medication.
[Ali wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): Yeah, I— 
Keith: Okay.
Ali (as Joey): Put two and two together. 
Janine: Is there any vampire medication?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I think I’m very quickly putting two and two together.
[Ali laughs]
Ali (as Joey): When are you gonna pick it up?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Look. I’ll come right after work.
Ali (as Joey): When is that?
Keith (as Nathaniel): If. If, you can do me one thing.
Ali (as Joey): Um. It depends on the thing.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Get a newspaper with today’s date, take a selfie of you outside in the sun, and send it to me?
Ali (as Joey): What are you talking about? I can’t—
Janine: Mirror selfie. Mirror selfie would work too.
Ali: [chuckles]
Ali (as Joey): Bring me a newspaper. I can’t go get a newspaper, I can’t drive.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I can’t bring you a newspaper, you don’t have a— you don’t get the news?
Ali (as Joey): No! What are you talking about?
Keith (as Nathaniel): How do you get your news?
Ali (as Joey): [short pause] TV.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh. Sure. TV.
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): You don’t watch Channel 3?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t watch Channel 3—do they even make channels that low?
Ali: [laughs]
Ali (as Joey): You don’t watch Primetime? You don’t watch Weather Hour?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No!
Ali (as Joey): You don’t watch the Weather Hour DJ set?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No! I have a—
Janine: Frying Time? Is one of those Frying Time?
Keith (as Nathaniel): [chuckles] I actually didn’t catch that last one, what was the last one?
Ali (as Joey): [laughs] The Weather Hour DJ set?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Weather Hour DJ set—no, I have a subscription to an observatory and they call me twice a day to tell me the weather forecast.
Ali (as Joey): When are you picking up the car?
Sylvi: [laughs]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’m picking up the car when you take a selfie in front of a bathroom mirror.
Ali (as Joey): Um, I don’t recall that we know each other that well, I’m really flattered? But I’m on medication right now, so I don’t think that like—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Nor– just a normal picture! Just in the bathroom!
Janine: Just FaceTime in the bathroom.
Ali (as Joey): I just think that like, you know, when I feel love, we can go out to dinner or whatever? But I’m not gonna like send you a picture.
Keith (as Nathaniel): What do you think I’m asking you for?
Ali (as Joey): For a selfie. With myself in the bathroom, bro.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. It’s not that weird.
Ali: [wheezes] Sorr— [laughs] I just— [wheezes]
Sylvi: Yeah, you—
Ali: I’ve been biting off the fucking— [wheezes] sleeve of my sweather this whole time— [laughs]
Keith: [bursts out in laughter]
Janine: You committed so well, you deserve to— you deserve your rest. You’ve never committed to a bit more.
Sylvi: It’s so—! That was so good.
Janine: Very good.
Keith: Um, okay, so let’s— remind me of the rules of this game that I don’t have the link to the [Ali wheezes] book for— open, or know where it is. Now, this is your scene, but you’re playing a secondary character. Secondary characters don’t roll the dice, correct?
Ali: Ohhh. I guess not.
Keith: So is this—
Janine: No, you would just roll for the situation. But it wouldn’t be— right, wouldn’t you?
Keith: Oh so— Ali still— what it feels like to me, is that Ali gets a token, [Ali: Yes.] for having furthered one of my things, [Ali: Mhm.] and I roll against Joey.
Sylvi: That would make sense to me. I did also link the book in the—
Keith: Okay.
Sylvi: Discord if you wanna grab it. I am looking for, for rules on this.
Ali: Yeah there was that whole thing about like, playing other characters, maybe there’s something there.
Keith: Yeah. I don’t know if you’re supposed to initiate a scene that isn’t of your character, but I just— I rolled with it, and I was thinking at the time—
Ali: Primary and Secondary characters. There are technically no non-player characters, if the character appears in the scene, they are controlled by a player. But when characters other than the PCs do have different rules, so let’s call them Secondary characters. Uhh— only Primary characters have reputation traits and roll dice. When a Secondary character is needed in the scene, anyone— [skipping forward] Yeah, it doesn’t say anything about— there’s rules against rolling against them. But not—
Keith: Yeah, right. So, so, because you started a scene as a Secondary character, which I think is abnormal, the thing that would happen is probably that you would get a token for doing my story instead of your own?
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: And I would roll against Joey as a secondary character.
Ali: Yeah that makes sense. Okay, perfect.
Keith: Okay. I’m glad I remembered that from last time, cause I didn’t— I didn’t get a chance to really look at the book until we were actually recording. [Ali chuckles] I just happened to [chuckles] internalize what we did really well. Okay, roll. What is it— is it 2D6? 2D6 and I feel like this is +0, right? It’s not really— this is Prep, I think. Which is all I’ve rolled.
Sylvi: Yeah, I would go with that. Because when I was doing my like roll to talk you into letting me go to work normally, I think I rolled Prep on that.
Ali: Is there anything Jock about being assertive, though?
Sylvi: I guess.
Keith: I think we rolled that way one time when it was Eddy’s turn.
Sylvi: Right.
Keith: So I’ll happily roll +2.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: If we’re all cool.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: [jock voice] If everyone can stay cool.
[Ali and Janine chuckle]
Sylvi: It’s Jock because you’re doing that voice on the phone.
Keith: [chuckles] What is the page where it says like, what stats to roll as? Like it gives you the default thing?
Sylvi: It’s page fourteen.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvi: I think that’s what you’re looking for.
Ali: If the trait you use isn’t obvious, roll +Jock for physical, +Nerd for mental, +Prep for social, and +Goth for creative challenges.
Keith: Yeah, I’m gonna roll— I’m gonna roll Prep.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: Cause it’s not physical, it’s just me being like, “do this!”
Ali: Yeah, fair fair fair, okay. You’re just gonna have to—
Keith: That’s eleven.
Sylvi: You nailed it.
Keith: Nailed it.
Ali: There you go.
Keith: Alright. I— [chuckles] I need Joey in his medicated state to be like, bathrobe outside, slippers on, [Ali chuckles] trying to steal a newspaper from a neighbour [Ali snorts]. Or! Or— or, is a vampire, [chuckles].
Ali: Wow.
Keith: And will not do this.
Sylvi: This is your— this is your— you’re bargaining here. It’s either give me the newspaper, or give me the vampire.
Keith: Right.
Ali: Wooow. [whispers] That’s tough. I mean you succeed, say what happens.
Sylvi: So you do just get to pick.
Keith: Oh! I know what to do.
Ali: Yeah?
Keith: Okay. I’m actually going to lower my result by one and take a token?
Ali: Oooh!
Keith: And in exchange, I succeed, but my target chooses a complication?
Ali: [chuckles] Okay!
Sylvi: Wow.
Keith: What I say happens is that I want you to take a bathroom selfie.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: And you do do that.
Sylvi: But?
Keith: But my chooses a complication.
Sylvi: Oh! Okay, the way you were saying that made me think that you had the complication in my mind already, okay.
Keith: Oh. No— well, I do have a complication in mind already.
Sylvi: My complication was just going to be that the mirror is not visible— he’s like, it’s like a front facing camera selfie and the shower’s behind him, so the mirror isn’t in view at all.
Keith: Ali?
Ali: Yeah, I— I think that works. I think that it’s a very sensual photo that is sent.
Sylvi: Yeah. Wow.
Keith: It is?!
Ali: Yeah— [laughs]
Keith: [laughs]
Sylvi: Also a complication! Joey thinks this is something different than you do.
Keith: Clearly.
Sylvi: Yeah!
Janine: I mean people are used to probably taking bathroom selfies in a specific mindset, and it’s hard to break those habits.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: I just have never heard of like, go into the bathroom and take me a— take me a saucy bathroom pic! [Ali wheezes] I wanna see your toilet, I wanna see your counter, I wanna see how empty your toilet roll is.
Janine: Well that’s not— [laughs]
Sylvi: That’s not how—
Janine: That’s not what it’s for!
Keith: There’s just better rooms in the house for pictures like that.
Ali: Sure.
Janine: It’s cause there’s good lighting in the bathroom usually.
Sylvi: Wait— okay, so.
Janine: And like a mirror, you know?
Sylvi: I actually have a different idea. Well, an additional idea, which is that the— someone in the chat was like— MewtheFez in the chat said “coyly smiling in the bathroom selfie, gums bleeding, and the gums bleeding thing was like, what if there’s some blood coming out of his mouth?”
Ali: [howls]
Janine: Oh my gooood.
Sylvi: Or like, he’s like smiling at you, and you can see some blood, and he’s like, holy fuck.
Janine: At that point he could even be in the mirror. But like,
Sylvi: Yeah, no! Like the mirror thing can be gone completely.
Janine: Is the mirror thing fake? Is that a lie?
Ali: Oh, this is. This is perfect, yes.
Keith: Great.
Janine: He could be a vampire thrall.
Ali: Mhm.
Janine: So he’s in the mirror, but he still eats blood. Think about it.
Keith: Sorry— this has turned into a real Renfield situation! [Ali laughs] Oh, I’ve accidentally messed with the chat—
Sylvi: You’ve pinned someone saying wow.
Keith: [chuckles] I did— I was just trying to reply and I pinned someone saying wow. There you go, wow. [laughs] It’s so— Twitch chat is awful, the buttons for like, replying and pinning are so massive, it’s so easy to click the other thing. Okay, where is my Roll20, and okay, so I can take one of my plumbombs, boom. Token, two token.
Ali (as Joey): [muffled] I sent the picture.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay. What is that?
Ali (as Joey): What do you mean?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Why are you all bloody?
Ali (as Joey): I’ve just got surgery, man! I can’t open and see, I got my teeth out.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Teeth out?
Ali (as Joey): I got my teeth out! I tried to get it—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Teeth out.
Ali (as Joey): Yeah yeah yeah. Doctor Yanko.
Keith (as Nathaniel): This is bad.
Janine: Doctor Yanko?
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): When are you picking up the car?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Doctor Yanko? I don’t even think Doctor Yanko lives in this town anymore.
Ali (as Joey): When do you get off work?
Keith (as Nathaniel): 5 o’ clock.
Ali (as Joey): And, you’re getting here 5.30? 6? 5.15?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. Be there at 5.15.
Ali (as Joey): Okay. I just want you to know—
Keith (as Nathaniel): I can’t understand you. Bye.
[Ali laughs, Janine chuckles]
Ali: Wonderful. 
Keith: How wet is your sleeve?
Ali: [laughs] Not as bad as you think, I think the first bite was worse than the second one, obviously?
Sylvi: Damn, vampire moment.
Ali: I had to learn— yeah, I had to learn about— [laughs] there was a “learn as you go” situation in terms of—
Sylvi: You crushed it.
Ali: Thank you! [laughs] Anyone—
Keith: What was your 1D2 roll here—?
Ali: I was gonna— I was gonna— that was gonna be if this guy was a vampire or not. But I think we got to a better, more ambiguous place through teamwork.
Keith: Ohhh, okay, I see.
Ali: So. So, that’s my scene! 
Sylvi: Hell yeah.
Keith: Great.
Sylvi: Did you take your token?
Ali: I did take my token. Keith, did you take your—? Yes.
Sylvi: Did you also?
Keith: Mhm.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: Cool.
Ali: Then I’m gonna write in my thing here.
Sylvi’s Second Scene [0:44:57]
Sylvi: It’s my scene now, I’m trying to figure out— cause, I don’t wanna jump straight to the ritual if that— if you gotta pick up this— if you gotta do this car stuff, you know?
Janine: Is there any ritual prep you need? Like you have to like, gather sticks or something?
Sylvi: Well actually, yeah! Because— I think the book counts as something that belongs to Mrs Cunningham, and it says here, you and your friend Nate were very into witchcraft as kids, now they claim they’ve learned real magic, they want you to join a ritual at the library, and bring something—ritual at the library, well, we’re changing that to the forest—and bring something that belongs to Mrs Cunningham.
Keith: Oh, I— I assumed that the forest was prep for the library.
Sylvi: Oh, so the forest is the practice ritual.
Keith: Right.
Sylvi: Okay.
Keith: We can’t just go in there and expect to nail a ritual first try.
Sylvi: Sorry man, I don’t know why I assumed that. That’s— you know, [Ali snickers] beginner shit talking, I should defer.
Keith: Yeah, it’s fine. It’s not— it’s not bad to be a beginner.
Sylvi: Thank you. You know, makes me feel more comfortable making mistakes when we’re doing incantations, etc.
Keith: [jock voice] Don’t— well don’t make mistakes!
Sylvi: Oh— okay. 
Keith: It’s fine to be a beginner, but don’t make mistakes!
[Ali chuckles]
Sylvi: You’re reminding me a lot of my dad right now. Okay. I think—
Keith: That’s cool.
Sylvi: Mm. Hmm. I have a thing on my sheet where someone like, Thomas Genie, the guy that Ali, your character admires, caught me—
Keith: Genie.
Sylvi: Stealing? [Ali wheezes] But also I kinda want— damn.
[Keith laughs, Ali’s wheezing intensifies]
Sylvi: I was like, yeah, we should probably do something with them, like other PCs, right?
Ali: Um, yeah! I mean we don’t have to— I mean, that stuff can come up whenever, if your— if your scene interest is elsewhere, for the moment, so to speak? I mean we can— it’s up to you. Don’t feel like you have to do a scene with that person just to—
Sylvi: Okay, okay.
Ali: Include them. [chuckles] Shout out to people watching me struggle with Roll20 here!
Sylvi: Oh, that’s part of the live show experience.
Ali: Yeah! I’m— I’ve tried— I’ve pressed the same button four times, and it didn’t work, and those takes will not be edited the way I would like to. Anyway, go on. 
Sylvi: Yeah, okay, you know what? I think I’m gonna merge my two ideas. I will need someone to play the detestable Thomas Genie in this scene.
Keith: Remind me, what’s detestable about Thomas Genie?
Sylvi: Oh I don’t know, he just could— he’s just holding it over my head that he caught me stealing.
Keith: I would love to do this. Can I do this?
Ali: Please!
Sylvi: Yeah!
[Janine chuckles]
Keith: I’ve had a lot of scenes, but I’d love to be a weirdo.
Sylvi: No, you’re crushing it. And I was thinking that this— to tie this into my, my other thing about our witchcraft, and our rituals and stuff, it could be while I’m hanging around the library, trying to grab a personal item of Mrs Cunningham’s? 
Keith: Okay.
Sylvi: When he like, confronts me over stealing? And I guess pretty like, really in the day? Like I’ve come in through— I am like working right now, technically, but I’ve done like, prep and everything, and I don’t know, stuff’s baking? Why don’t they— I’m not a baker, I don’t— I just made a character thing, cause I was like oh, that’s cool. [Ali wheezes] There isn’t— she’s got time, is what I’m saying. But she is on the clock.
Keith: At the library?
Sylvi: At the library— cause the library’s in the grocery store, I’m assuming it’s a walking distance.
Keith: Oh, right! [laughs] The library’s in the grocer— is this a different library—? Is this where Cunning— this isn’t the library that Cunningham worked at, is it?
Sylvi: I always assumed it was! I figured she was our coworker!
Ali: Wow.
Sylvi: Am I wrong about this? Am I assuming this wrongly the entire time?
Keith: Cause we had a— we had a Cunningham worked at the library, and all of the sudden, we had a library in the bookstore—
Sylvi: Yeah that’s what I remember.
Keith: Sorry, I mean a library in the supermarket, and I guess I just never connected these two things.
[Ali chuckles]
Sylvi: Yeah!
Keith: Because I was getting you to go in— I picked you up at the library— no I didn’t, you came—
Sylvi: I drove you home from work.
Keith: I thought that— oh, you picked me up to go to—
Sylvi: Oh no I picked you up to go to work.
Keith: Right. So you had the— yeah yeah yeah. Ali, this is your— this is your idea? [Ali laughs] There are two libraries, or has Mrs Cunningham been in the supermarket this whole time?
Ali: It would be so funny if she was there the entire time.
Sylvi: That’s— yeah.
Keith: I— hey! The guy did die in the freezer! Maybe!
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: That’s what I’m saying! Like—
Keith: Alright. Okay.
Sylvi: That’s why I’ve jumped to this conclusion. Cause like well yeah, everything we’ve done, has been pointing to this being our en-suite library. 
Ali: I guess nobody drew that library on the map either at the beginning of the game.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvi: L was Liquor. [Ali laughs]
Ali: There you go. Why have a library, a plot-specific library in the grocery store, and then— [wheezes]
Sylvi: Have it somewhere else?
Keith: [chuckles] Right, yes. It’s overly complicated [Sylvi: Yeah.] if less insane.
Sylvi: Smart worldbuilding, you know? Like that’s what we do here. [Ali and Keith chuckle]
Keith: We do smart worldbuilding, not smart city planning. Alright, so— sorry, Sylvi, what is Jenny doing at the library?
Sylvi: Sort of like, I’m picturing her sort of at like the check-out desk, peeking around, trying to see if like, Ms. Cunningham like left anything around that like, isn’t gonna be missed, but also I could take so my bestie can do black magic on it.
Keith (as Genie): Need some isopropyl alcohol?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): You can’t sneak up on people on that.
Keith (as Genie): You need some isopropyl alcohol?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No…? What are you—
Keith (as Genie): For your sticky fingers?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Oh my god. Can you please take a step back?
Keith (as Genie): You need a— you need a wet nap, like at a barbecue place?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I don’t… need… what are you— no. I’m good.
Keith (as Genie): For your sticky fingers?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): My sticky— hey. I don’t like what you’re trying to imply here, man.
Keith (as Genie): Why! I don’t need to imply! I got a— I know, I saw! I know what I saw.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): You don’t— what did you— sure you did. You’re an old— man, you needed glasses, since before I started working here.
Keith (as Genie): Glasses help people see.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): That’s why, I know. And so you don’t have any.
Keith (as Genie): Oh. [coughs]
Keith: Patting, patting his shirt. [laughs]
Sylvi: Keith!
Keith (as Genie): Okay, okay! I didn’t bring ‘em, but. You know.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): It was like— listen, man. I already told you. I had to check on the… cinnamon buns, and that’s why I was there late. And, you know, like, it was dark when you saw— I’m just saying, you’re jumping to conclusions here. I don’t— these fingers— these hands, these fingers? Smooth. Not sticky at all.
Keith (as Genie): You might have this whole store wrapped around those little fingers, but I know what I saw.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Please stop talking about my fingers.
Keith (as Genie): [whispers] I saw you taking it. I saw what you took.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah? Like what? Enlighten me.
Keith (as Genie): Took a… what haven’t you taken! I see you take mints, I see you take hands of nuts!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay.
Keith (as Genie): [whispering] I saw you take the book.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): It’s a library, people take books from it all the time.
Keith (as Genie): You still gotta swipe! You still gotta check out.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Who’s to say I didn’t?
Keith (as Genie): I’m to say. I saw, I saw, I saw it… you didn’t…
Keith: [chuckles] Sorry, the voice keeps getting to me.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I’ll file a complain.
Keith (as Genie): Come on man, don’t make it a big deal. [whistles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Ain’t no—
Keith (as Genie): [whistles] That’s some nerve. That I would make it a big deal, that you’re walking around taking stuff that’s not yours. 
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Again, I’m sticking to the—
Keith (as Genie): [whistles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Oh, I hate when you whistle at me.
Keith (as Genie): [cackles] Get used to it!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I—
Keith (as Genie): I’m just getting a juice! Getting my juices!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah yeah yeah! 
[Janine chuckles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No, you and your— you and your apple juice, I see you hovering around all the time— you’re supposed to be in the florist section.
Keith (as Genie): And you know what’s so great about these? You know what’s so great about these? I paid for ‘em.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Hello Mr. Free Market over here.
Keith (as Genie): It’s Genie. And don’t get any ideas about that name, either.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah? Well if I had three wishes, they’d all be for you to go away.
Keith (as Genie): Well good. Cause I— you don’t, cause I’m not!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I know, I know, I’m just trying— you!
Keith (as Genie): I’m not!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Don’t you have like, work to be doing? You’re a supervisor.
Keith (as Genie): What does it look like I’m doing when I’m watching you?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I’m not in your department.
Keith (as Genie): I technically have authority over outside departments.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Technically, you can kiss my ass, you know?
Keith (as Genie): [slurping noises]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Get this— stop slurping when we’re in the middle of a conversation!
Keith (as Genie): My throat gets dry.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I can tell.
Keith (as Genie): Seasonal allergies.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): And you’re— [chuckles] wait. Why do you work in the forest section if you have seasonal allergies?
Keith (as Genie): I love the beauty of nature.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): But you’re— it makes you— you sound like Gollum all the time now.
Keith (as Genie): It is a miniscule price to pay to be surrounded by the beauty of nature every day. I wake up and I, I— you know, I feel fine, I feel good.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah, yeah. Duh, totally man, I can tell.
Keith (as Genie): Emotionally, I feel good. Physically, I’m a little under the weather.
[Sylvi wheezes]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): You’re— I’m kinda—
Keith (as Genie): [mocking sounds]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): [sighs]
Keith (as Genie): [whistles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Whistle at me one more time, and I’m gonna shove that juice box down your goddamn throat.
Keith (as Genie): That’s another violation! That’s— writing you up! Test me one more time!
Sylvi: Can I roll to get out of this conversation? Like, I’m— I think it’s as simple as—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I need to get back to work. You need to leave me alone.
Keith (as Genie): Why would I do that? Why would I just let you have the run of the place, huh?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I’m— because the managers get mad when we don’t meet quota for the day.
Keith (as Genie): Oh you’re meeting quota at the library?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No one— I’m on a break? We get one of those.
Keith (as Genie): Yeah it’s true.
[machine humming noise in the background]
Janine: I love the foley work of the walk-in freezer just kicking in.
[Ali and Keith laugh]
Sylvi: What stat would it be to brush off someone who’s kind of your boss?
Keith: Prep?
Sylvi: Okay, fuck.
Ali: Yeah, I guess that’s social. Unless you wanna do something more creative.
Keith: You can try and scare me!
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: You know what? [Ali chuckles] You know what?
Ali: What?
Sylvi: The walk-in freezer kicking on has given me an idea. I’m gonna intimidate this man into leaving me alone.
Ali: [gasps]
Sylvi: Just like, yeah, I’m glad—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): It’s a shame you’re already dealing with seasonal allergies, they make it so hard to notice things? Like I’d hate for you to go into the walk-in freezer and slip or something, you know?
Keith (as Genie): [hushed tone] What are you trying to say?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I don’t know, what am I trying to say? You tell me. You seem to know everything.
Keith (as Genie): Sick. Sick thing to say. Sick!
[Ali wheezes]
Keith (as Genie): Stealing, sick mind! Disgusting!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I’m just—
Keith (as Genie): Oh my god!
[Ali howling with laughter]
Ali: Keith, have you been playing Rule of Rose?
Sylvi:
Keith: Say again?
Ali: Have you been playing Rule of Rose?
Keith: No, what is that?
Ali: Oh, it’s a scary Playstation 2 game where everybody fucking [wheezes] bullies a child [laughs] [Keith laughs]
Keith: Oh is this the one that takes place in like a high school?
Sylvi: Yeah—
Ali: No—
Sylvi: Kinda, it’s a boarding school, isn’t it?
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Okay. Yeah, I have heard of this game, no I don’t think about Rule of Rose.
Ali: Uh huh. Okay then.
Sylvi: I rolled a six, so, I didn’t succeed on my threat.
Keith: No.
Sylvi: The player who’s least involved in the scene decides how your action made the situation worse? So.
Janine: Is that me? Or is that Ali?
Keith: I guess that’s Ali and Janine.
Ali: I feel like that might be you, Janine, because I have a bond with this person.
Keith: Right, true.
Janine: Right. Okay, so.
Ali: I admire him even though he can’t stand me [laughs].
Sylvi: Yeah! 
Keith: [laughs]
Janine: Okay, so, recap for me what you want?
Sylvi: So, what I was trying to do was to scare him into leaving me alone.
Janine: Right.
Keith: And your overall goal in the scene was to thing something of Ms. Cunningham’s.
Sylvi: My overall goal in this scene was to like, yeah, to get something of Ms. Cunningham’s for our ritual, that I couldn’t do because he was slurping his juice box at me.
Janine: Okay, and you want— we need a complication, or a reason that it doesn’t?
Sylvi: I rolled a six, so, it got worse.
Janine: Ah, okay.
Sylvi: My threatening made the situation worse, somehow. Weird how that happened.
Janine: He records everything all of the time.
Sylvi: Oh my fucking god!
Janine: On his phone. He’s always running voice notes or whatever [chuckles].
Ali: That’s illegal!
Keith (as Genie): I got you, I finally got you!
Janine: That’s a mistake.
[Ali and Keith chuckle]
Keith (as Genie): You fuckin’ idiot! You fuckin’ idiot.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Woah!
Keith (as Genie): I finally got you! You’re done! You get this, you get that you’re done? You’re done!
[Ali wheezes]
Keith (as Genie): You’re done here.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): In the library?
Keith (as Genie): No. Not in the library.
Keith: And he goes.
Sylvi: I hate that guy.
Ali: Wow.
Janine: And we’re not investigating the possibility that he’s the vampire?
[Ali and Keith laugh]
Sylvi: You know!
Janine: He’s really giving vampire energy, I just—
Sylvi: I’m sure I’m gonna bring it up.
Keith: [chuckles]
Janine: Mhm.
Sylvi: Alright, I think it’s Janine, you’re up next, to set a scene.
Janine’s Second Scene [1:02:29]
Janine: Yeah. Okay, so. What’s— I’m trying to remember like, what we’re at, progress-wise with the lottery ticket. I know that it’s Nathaniel’s, that it’s Nate’s.
Keith: Right.
Janine: I have Maddie’s watch. What was the like, progress— I feel like we’re waiting for something?
Keith: You’re refusing to get involved, but you gave, but I learned by confronting Maddie, that Maddie got it from Eddy’s guitar teacher.
Janine: Mhm.
Keith: And talked to Eddy’s guitar teacher who implied that she got it at brunch with Ms. Cunningham, they were out drinking mimosas.
Janine: Mhm.
Keith: And [chuckles] she was too drunk to remember how exactly she got the lottery ticket.
Janine: Okay, I— yeah, I remember Denise’s lottery ticket origin story. [Ali chuckles] I got that up here. 
Sylvi: [chuckles]
Janine: Okay let’s see. So Eddy’s kind of like in a limbo. Eddy maybe needs to get entangled in something. Oooh, let’s see. Keith, your text is so small.
Keith: Yeah, I couldn’t— first of all, I couldn’t get it to not be blurry, no matter what I did.
Janine: Yeah. yeah.
Keith: And then there’s a lot of text, so I had to keep making it smaller.
Janine: Yeah. So it would be correct, it was stuck to the bottom for—
Keith: It would be fine if when you zoomed in, it was still not— it unblurred, but it never unblurs.
Janine: Yeah. Okay. I’ll try to like— I’m looking for a thing that I can hook on to for someone else’s stuff. Did we ever discover how you secretly helped Mrs. Cunningham? Ali? Maddie?
Ali: No.
Sylvi: Oooh.
Janine: Hm.
Sylvi: Maybe you’re the thrall.
Janine: Yeah, wow.
Ali: Maybe I’m the thrall.
Keith: Oh my god.
Sylvi: This entire grocery store’s full of vampires.
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: I have inspiration that I’m working from.
Ali: Okay! [wheezes]
Janine: Uh huh?
Sylvi: I can— you know, it’s a very inspired performance.
Keith: There’s an old Goosebumps movie that I’ve talked about. Both Run Button and Friends at the Table. Where these kids are forced to moved to a town, and they get there and everyone is like a vampire, and the whole town [wheezes].
Sylvi: Oh, wait! 
Janine: [chuckles] Right.
Sylvi: I do remember talking to you about this. I also think I’ve seen this.
Keith: The end— the final scene haunted me for years as like a seven-year old child [Ali laughs] who was forced by my dad to see this movie that I didn’t want to see? I was like no, this is gonna be too scary for me, and then it was.
Ali: Wow.
Keith: They escape from the town, so they think, the final frame, the final shot of the movie is in the back of their Subaru, is their golden retriever dog, and the golden retriever dog is like, eyes flash red, which is the [whispers] tell-tale sign of the vampire.
Janine: Right! 
Keith: So the dog was infected.
Janine: I remember that. Cause they use the dog eye thing in like the credits for this show, I think.
Keith: Really!
Janine: Or the dog’s eyes flashing, it was really weird.
Sylvi: Yeah no, the dog eye flash I feel like was very iconic.
Janine: Yeah, yeah. Alright. I want a scene with Maddie in— [Ali chuckles] [sighs] man, if I set it in the walk-in freezer it feels like it’s my thing, but it’s actually, I wanna play off your thing. Which is that Denise owes you money but paid you with a scratch-off instead, turns out it’s stolen property, it belongs to Nate.
Ali: Mhm.
Janine: So it doesn’t have to be the walk-in freezer, but.
Ali: It could be like, we’re like unpacking boxes in the back area?
Janine: I’m a lottery guy, baby.
Ali: [laughs] Okay! [wheezes]
Janine: I don’t deal with frozen meat and whatever.
Ali: Alright, then what are you doing in the freezer all the time?
Janine: I keep my lunch— I keep my lunch in there!
Ali: Huh?
Janine (as Eddy): I keep my lunch in there.
Ali (as Maddie): I’m not letting you into the walk-in freeze— there’s a refrigerator to put your lunch in.
Janine (as Eddy): It smells.
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs] Oh my god. And the walk-in freezer doesn’t smell.
Janine (as Eddy): Nah. It gets cleaned way more often.
Ali (as Maddie): Ask someone else for their keys, I have to go give Register 5 change.
Janine (as Eddy): But, Maddie. Maddie. Okay. Hang on. I didn’t actually— [exhales] okay, come here. Can we go like, to the—
Ali (as Maddie): Come here?
Janine: What’s a stupid word. [Ali wheezes] What’s a stupid word for place in a building?
Ali: [snorts] You’re on your own for that one, I’m sorry! [laughs]
Janine (as Eddy): Can we talk between the outside automatic doors and the inside automatic doors where the firewood is?
Ali (as Maddie): All the way at the front—? Yeah, I have to. I have to go to make this change anyway, let’s go to the front of the store, to talk.
Janine (as Eddy):  Yeah.
Janine: Very patiently waits for you to finish the—
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: The check-out thing, is like kind of starts talking on the way to the in-between the automatic doors. Is like,
Janine (as Eddy): I’ve been thinking about this thing with, you know, you put all that work into that table. And then you get paid in this ticket, and now it’s looking like, I don’t know, I think Nate’s gonna try and get it out from under you.
Ali (as Maddie): Well, Nate doesn’t work for the New Jersey Lottery Board does he?
Janine (as Eddy): Knowing Nate, I can’t say anything definitive. I hope he doesn’t, cause that would make it illegal for him to have the ticket, but. 
Ali (as Maddie): How exactly is he going to get it out from under me, if the scratch-off ticket is in the register, and I gave it to you?
Janine (as Eddy): Well, it’s not in the— it’s in my pocket.
Ali (as Maddie): [whispers] Oh my fucking god.
Janine (as Eddy): If I put it—
Ali (as Maddie): So it’s just in the wind now?
Janine (as Eddy): —in the register, it’s gonna get lost in there, and I’m not gonna know which one it is, and—
Ali (as Maddie): It’s gonna be safe with the money! What are you talk— it’s gonna get lost in there?
Janine (as Eddy): The money’s not safe. Ted’s in there all the time.
Ali (as Maddie): [whispers] My god.
Janine (as Eddy): You know. You know! Everyone knows. Always getting fives in there to— I don’t know what he does with them. Anyway, I— you know, I’m just, I’m trying to be the good guy, here, you know?
Ali (as Maddie): Oh, are you?
Janine (as Eddy): I— yeah. You know— I am, because I know, I know I’ve done wrong by you in the past.
Ali (as Maddie): [whispers] Oh my god.
Janine (as Eddy): I was young, I didn’t know what I was doing. I didn’t—
Ali (as Maddie): Why do you talk about this every conversation we have?
Janine (as Eddy): —label your name in my phone. Cause it weighs on me.
Ali (as Maddie): I’m trying to talk about apples. I’m trying to talk about work. I’m trying to talk about the things I have to do, and—
Janine (as Eddy): It’s a burden on my heart. Maddie.
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Maddie): What does this have to do with my thousand dollars?
Janine (as Eddy): The point is I’m trying—! [lowers voice] I’m trying to do right by you, but also, Nate is my bro. And there are rules about bros.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh, it’s a bro rule not to give me nine hundred and fifty dollars and my watch back?
Janine (as Eddy): Well technically, his money bought the ticket.
Ali (as Maddie): His money didn’t do anything!
Janine (as Eddy): You’re still— he bought the ticket.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh my god. Oh my god.
Janine (as Eddy): He bought a lottery ticket!
Ali (as Maddie): When did he buy the ticket? Did he show you the receipt? He didn’t have the ticket! I lost the ticket!
Janine (as Eddy): It smelled like him.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh my god, I lost a thousand dollar lottery ticket!
Janine (as Eddy): You didn’t buy the ticket, you don’t have a receipt either.
Ali (as Maddie): [whispering] Oh my god.
Janine (as Eddy): Listen. This is the lottery counter code, you buy the ticket, you get the cash.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh, is it a bro code, or is it a lottery ticket counter code now? Cause it sounds like the night—
Janine (as Eddy): Sometimes it overlaps, it’s a Venn Diagram!
[Ali wheezes, Keith laughs]
Sylvi: Can’t believe it didn’t work out between you too.
[Ali wheezes harder]
Janine (as Eddy): Listen, I came here to— I wanted to help you! I wanted to find another way for you to get paid! That’s all. And then you’re here, like, I have a lottery ticket, it’s mine, and all the money from it is mine, even though I don’t care about the lottery code! It’s like— this isn’t you.
[Ali wheezes]
Janine (as Eddy): This isn’t you, Maddie. I know it’s not you.
Ali (as Maddie): The lottery code. Is that when somebody comes up to the desk and gives you a scratch-off ticket with the prize of a thousand dollars, you give them a thousand dollars. And I don’t really understand why this went wrong.
Janine (as Eddy): Well let me tell— let me ask you this. What if I cashed it? What if I took it to Gulp n’ Dash, and I cashed it—
Ali (as Maddie): You did what you— you refused to cash it!
Janine (as Eddy): I’ve taken— cause our thing’s broken. That’s not my problem! That’s the store’s problem.
Ali (as Maddie): [whispering] Oh my god.
Janine (as Eddy): I just hit the buttons. It’s— what if I took it down the street, the corner store—which you could’ve done too, I don’t know why you didn’t honestly—and I cashed it, what’s the difference? What’s the difference between you and me?
Ali (as Maddie): I don’t understand how this plan—
Janine (as Eddy): The Gulp n’ Dash, the same thing— the Gulp n’ Dash doesn’t know I didn’t buy it. But is it wrong? Yes. Ethically, morally, it’s all wrong.
Ali (as Maddie): So you’re going down to Gulp n’ Clean, and you’re handing in the ticket—
Janine: [laughs] Gulp n’ Clean…!
[Ali laughs]
Keith: Gulp n’ Clean is across town, this is Gulp n’ Dash.
Sylvi: Gulp n’ Clean is a very different establishment! 
[Ali howls with laughter]
Ali: [wheezing] Sorr—
Sylvi: They’re a dry cleaner. A dry cleaner.
Keith: They’re a dry cleaner that sells every kind—
Sylvi: Of snack.
Keith: They have snacks, but—
Janine: Dry cleaner/liquor store.
Keith: They sell every kind of energy drink.
[Ali’s wheezing calms down, Ali inhales]
Keith: They have summer Red Bull year round. And, they can get stains out of something that’s hard to get out of.
Sylvi: If you ask for the House Special, they’ll give you the four-loco that still has alcohol in it. [Ali chuckles] That’s what was— I don’t know which way they went with this. Better remember.
Janine: This is good work. We’re doing good work.
Keith: Caffeine. It took the caffeine out.
Sylvi: Okay.
Janine (as Eddy): Maddie. I might have an in with Denise. I don’t wanna get into it. But, you know, I know what—
Ali (as Maddie): You don’t need an in! Didn’t you just say you were going to go get the money, and then just give me the money? What’s the scheme?
Janine (as Eddy): No— I was saying, I was gonna cash it for me. I was using— it was like a metaphor. It’s like a rhetorical example.
Ali (as Maddie): How—
Janine (as Eddy): You got better English grades than me, I don’t know how you’re fucking this up like this.
[Keith bursts out laughing]
Ali (as Maddie): I graduated high school six years ago.
[Ali wheezes]
Ali (as Maddie): I don’t know why you keep talking about this!
Janine (as Eddy): The only reason I graduated was because I copied all your essays. I mean, “learned” from all your essays. I’m saying that we can do—
Ali (as Maddie): Since when is this ticket yours now?
Janine (as Eddy): Nice to do things that— I was just, it was an example of it being wrong to cash a ticket that’s not yours! I was hoping to appeal to your version of this—
Ali (as Maddie): I was paid! It was paid. It was bartered!
Janine (as Eddy): Not by you!
Ali (as Maddie): What are you—?
Janine (as Eddy): You didn’t pay for it. You gave a lady a garbage table and she gave you a ticket that she got from someone else.
Ali (as Maddie): [low voice] A garbage table?
Keith: [howls with laughter]
Sylvi: Wow.
Janine (as Eddy): Isn’t that the stuff you— you take the garbage from the street, and then you paint it and then you sell it to people for a million times more?
Ali (as Maddie): [fuming sounds] [inhales]
Janine (as Eddy): You do good, I’m not saying you don’t do good.
Sylvi: He’s such a charmer.
Janine (as Eddy): You do the best garbage table in town, everyone knows that.
[Sylvi laughs, Ali wheezes]
Keith: That’s only because the old Meatballs ran out of business, and they stopped selling their garbage table out.
Janine: [chuckles]
Ali: [coughs]
Janine (as Eddy): Listen, I know— you don’t need to— we don’t need to— you gotta get back to doing the stuff that you do, walking around, opening cash registers. 
Ali (as Maddie): [deep inhale] [deep exhale]
Janine (as Eddy): I gotta go back to the counter to tell people we can’t cash their things. I’ll call Denise maybe later, I’ll see if I can figure something out for you—
Ali (as Maddie): What is there to figure out?
Janine (as Eddy): She could just pay you actual money. She’s got it.
Ali (as Maddie): She paid me money. She gave me the scratch-off ticket that’s in your pocket.
Janine (as Eddy): But that ain’t money, babe. That’s paper.
Ali (as Maddie): [whispering] Oh my god.
Keith: [whistles]
Sylvi: Oh no.
Keith: That was Genie just walking by [laughs]. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Ali (as Maddie): So what you’re saying, is that because of a supposed bro code, you’re siding with Nathaniel on this?
Janine (as Eddy): And also the lottery counter guy code of ethics, or whatever I said before.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh yeah. Whatever you said before.
Janine (as Eddy): I got a lot of codes that I live by. The important thing is I remember what the codes are and not what they’re called.
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs]
Janine (as Eddy): Don’t you have a code? Even one, Maddie?
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith: Don’t you have even one?
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine (as Eddy): Cause I got like, eight. I’m a man of integrity, now, Maddie.
Ali (as Maddie): No, Eddy. I have bills!
Janine: [chuckles]
Ali (as Maddie): What do you say— what do you say, I find a hundred dollars on the floor, and I have to walk around to find every person who had a hundred dollars in their pocket? 
Janine (as Eddy): Maybe.
Ali (as Maddie): You think that Denise—
Janine (as Eddy): Maybe you don’t just immediately spend that hundred dollars. Maybe you sit on it for a bit until a starving—
Ali (as Maddie): Oh, and this is what— this is the bargain you’re going to offer to Denise—
Janine (as Eddy): Lady comes and is like, hey, I lost a hundred dollars—
Ali (as Maddie): You’re going to go to Denise and say, oh, a starving lady lost a hundred dollars? This is your big plan?
Janine (as Eddy): What? No, you just made that scenario up.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh my god! [exasperated] Oh my god, what are you talking about?
Janine (as Eddy): I’m saying if you found a hundred bucks, then it would— it’s a good idea to not spend it immediately. And you’re trying to spend this lottery ticket immediately. Just simmer on it, baby, and something else will come together.
Ali (as Maddie): I— what—
Janine (as Eddy): If you let Eddy do his work, like a good man, like I’m being a good man,
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: [laughs]
Janine (as Eddy): Maybe you’d let me be a good man,
Ali: [snorts]
Keith: I feel like Eddy—
Janine (as Eddy): And then we see how it shakes out.
Keith: I feel like all of a sudden Eddy’s trying to get married?
[Ali wheezes, Keith laughs, Janine chuckles]
Janine: Alright.
Ali: I don’t know what the roll here is. I’m so confused— [wheezes]
Janine: I think the roll is—
Keith: This is Eddy’s roll.
Janine: Yeah. I think this roll is against Maddie.
Ali: Mhm. [chuckles]
Janine: I think this roll is like, do I successfully convince you that I can handle this. Like are you going to put your trust in me—
Ali: No! [laughs]
Keith: Well, wait for the roll!
Janine: I’m open to alternatives.
Ali: [continues laughing] Um. I guess it could be a roll, because you could succeed here. Cause I— she doesn’t really have any choice. The ticket is in your pocket. 
Keith: Right.
Ali: [wheezes] 
Keith: And why would anybody want to steal—
Janine: But like if I fail, you could rob me, you know?
Keith: Why would anybody want to steal a thousand dollars from everyone’s favourite co-worker Nathaniel Munth?
Ali: [chuckles] Right. What are we— are we both rolling— when you act against another PC, you… is it just you roll?
Keith: Yeah, it just slightly changes what the outcome— yeah, it’s just—
Janine: I think it’s just I roll, but the consequence is different?
Ali: Okay, yeah. Okay. It’s not a roll versus a roll.
Janine: I’m trying to convince you with words, right? That feels Prep.
Keith: This is definitely Prep.
Janine: Which is not ideal for me, but, you know.
Ali: [chuckles]
Janine: Eddy is not a guy who thinks ahead that way.
Sylvi: No?
Ali: [snorts] Shut up. Shut—
Janine: No. I got a six.
Ali: You got a six. 
Keith: Your target decides what happens, unless you give them a token to change the result to a 7-9.
Ali: Wow.
Janine: Um. Hm. I wanna hear what happens.
Ali: [chuckles]
Janine: I’m invested in this game, I want the story to happen, you know? You tell me how it goes.
Ali: Ohh, how does this go? 
Keith: I think it’s— I think you sounded really convincing.
Ali: [exhales] 
Ali (as Maddie): Give me the ticket.
Janine (as Eddy): What?
Ali (as Maddie): Give me. The ticket. And my watch.
Janine (as Eddy): Just give you the ticket?
Ali (as Maddie): Yes.
Janine (as Eddy): And your watch?
Ali (as Maddie): Yes.
Janine (as Eddy): Well— but— then you can’t— I—
Ali (as Maddie): And then I can’t what? Have the ticket that was mine? That was paid for? That was given to me?
Janine (as Eddy): But it wasn’t—
Ali (as Maddie): Does everybody who comes up to the counter, you ask them where that ticket came from?
Janine (as Eddy): No, I usually remember them. Cause like, everyone’s got a day they come in usually, and, to do it— and I know like, a lot of their names.
Ali (as Maddie): If you don’t give me the ticket, and me my watch by the end of your shift, I’m gonna show the security camera footage to the general manager.
Janine (as Eddy): The footage of what?
Ali (as Maddie): Me giving you the ticket! And then who’s ticket it is, isn’t going to matter.
Janine (as Eddy): Fine. [exhales] Here. Here’s the ticket.
Ali (as Maddie): Where’s my watch?
Janine: Pulling his sleeve down,
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine (as Eddy): I don’t know, like in my car, probably.
Keith: [laughs out loud]
Ali (as Maddie): Cause I saw you wearing it last night.
Janine (as Eddy): Why would I wear a girl’s watch?
Ali (as Maddie): That’s a great question.
Janine (as Eddy): Because it’s… really delicate and nice? And— I’ll find it and give it to you later, okay?
Ali (as Maddie): Have a great rest of your day.
Janine (as Eddy): You’ve changed.
Ali: [howls with laughter]
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Ali: Great. 
Janine: I feel great about that. Keith, your turn.
Ali: That didn’t go well for Eddy [wheezes].
Janine: I think— that went perfectly for me, Janine. I don’t give a shit for Eddy.
Ali: [wheezing, laughing]
Keith: I care about how it went for Nathaniel.
Janine: Well he doesn’t know now, does he?
Keith’s Second Scene [1:22:54]
Keith: Not yet. [stretching] Um, okay! I’ve got a— I’ve got a lot of soups going.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: So, Eddy gave my ticket back to Maddie. I’ve got the Goku car and obviously the Joey vampire thing to deal with. It seems like the ritual is on ice temporarily because it’s still not that day.
Sylvi: I mean, we could do that. I just didn’t want to jump— I didn’t want to jump ahead too much when you have the car stuff— I wanted it to be your choice, basically, because you had the car stuff on the backburner as well.
Keith: Yeah, let’s try— let’s broaden it out. Let’s do this car thing. I have to pick up the car, so I’m leaving work. And I wanna get there— I wanna get there a half hour early. So I’m leaving work early. Just walking out. And, peeking in through windows at Joey’s house. I guess I knock on the door. No, I don’t knock on the door. I go over to the car, and I yell for Joey— do we know who Joey is? Who’s playing Joey? Wait—
Sylvi: It was Ali before.
Keith: Ali was playing Joey.
Ali: I was Joey at the time, yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Would you like to remain Joey?
Ali: Sure… [wheezes]
Keith: Sure.
Sylvi: [chuckles]
Keith (as Nathaniel): [shouting] Joey!!!
Ali (as Joey): Hold on. Hold on a second. Okay okay okay. What’s poppin’, bro?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Come on— come out!!!
Ali: I come outside. [laughs]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh! Well what the fuck!
Ali: [wheezes] I’m like standing on the deck. Like the door. You know how—
Keith: Are you— is there an awning over you?
Ali: I think so, yeah. So like a concrete sails/step situation.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Come here! Come over here!
Ali (as Joey): What are you talking about?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Come give me the keys to the car!
Ali (as Joey): I’ll throw ‘em to you.
Keith (as Nathaniel): No! Come. Over!
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): Why do you keep fucking around, man?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’m not fucking around. You’re fucking around.
Ali (as Joey): I just need you to drop off this car.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’m being serious about this. Deadly serious.
Ali: [snorts, chuckles]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay, lemme—
Janine: Bring a stake— did Nate bring a stake? I need to know.
Keith: Yeah, I almost tried to grab Jenny for this scene, and give her a backpack full of stakes.
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: We could’ve done that!
Keith: But I just had a different idea.
Janine: [chuckles]
Sylvi: Yeah, no worries.
Ali (as Joey): Okay. One second, one second, one second.
Ali: I go back inside. I put on a hoodie. I zip it up. I put the hood up [wheezes]. And then I— I’m holding both of my hands in the kangaroo pocket, you know, how you put it in a kangaroo pocket.
Keith (as Nathaniel): What are you doing? Why are you doing that?
Ali (as Joey): It’s cold out.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Why didn’t you just come here? It’s not cold out! It’s four forty-five in July! It is eighty six degrees.
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): This weather is making me sleepy, man. And I’m cold. And it’s not a great day for me. But I’m about to sell this car, it’s all about to turn around.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Here. Catch!
Keith: I throw a head of garlic that I stole from produce.
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): What are you messing about my lawn for, man?
Keith (as Nathaniel): What, you just let it fall?
Ali (as Joey): Yeah, the birds will have it. I can’t chew, bro! What am I about to do with garlic?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Pick it up and toss it back to me.
Ali (as Joey): Oh my god. You want it back?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, I want it back.
Ali (as Joey): You’re going to eat the floor garlic?
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s covered in skin, it’s fine.
Ali: I throw the keys next to the garlic.
Ali (as Joey): Go get it.
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, you go get it.
Ali (as Joey): What are you talking about, man?
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Joey): You’re acting really silly right now. And this isn’t really a silly day for me.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s insane that you think that I’m the one that’s acting silly, because you’re the one that’s acting silly, man!
Ali: [laughs, stifles laughter]
Ali (as Joey): Okay, fine.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay.
Ali (as Joey): You throwing things on the floor, expecting me to go get it.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s not the floor, it’s the grass. And I was throwing it to you, and you let it bounce off of you. Hands in your pockets!
Ali (as Joey): This isn’t really the energy you had on the phone, by the way. I don’t think—
Keith (as Nathaniel): The stakes have been raised, Joey!
Sylvi: Oh no.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You better watch it that they don’t get raised any higher.
Ali (as Joey): I beg your pardon?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Cause when those stakes come down, it’s your heart it’ll be piercing!
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi: Holy fuck.
Ali (as Joey): You keep acting like that, you’re not piercing anybody’s heart, man. It was cuter before you know, send me a picture, send me a picture! I don’t know about this garlic shit.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I didn’t say send me a picture, send me a picture!
Ali: [laughs, wheezes]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I said, if you want me to sell your car, I need a photograph! It’s different!
Ali (as Joey): Yeah, okay so you—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Take your hands out of your pockets, pick up the garlic and the keys, and pass them over here.
Ali: [wheezes] I do that. I go and pick them up— I pick up the keys first,
Keith: Okay.
Ali: And then I hold the garlic in your hand.
Keith: In your hand?
Ali: Over, like I hold them both. [wheezes]
Keith: What do you mean, describe what’s happening. What am I seeing?
Ali: So the— the keys are against my palm.
Keith: Okay.
Ali: The garlic is on the keys. And then the tips— [wheezes] the tips of my fingers are squeezing the garlic.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvi: Yeah, this is the type of guy who’d paint Goku on his car.
Ali: [wheezing]
Keith: I’m running up to Joey— I’m running up to Joey, I’m going to pick him up—
Ali: What!
Keith: Take his hoodie off, and run into the sun.
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi: You gotta roll!
Ali: Yeah, you’re gonna have to roll for that.
Keith: Yeah! This is a roll, this is a Jock roll, yes.
Janine: But also, two Jock. This is— yeah, Mega Jock.
Sylvi: But you still gotta roll it.
Ali: I— yeah, let’s roll it. Let’s see how you do.
Keith: Ten.
Sylvi: Wow.
Ali: Wow. On a ten— a ten or higher, you succeed! Say what happens. 
Sylvi: Okay.
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith: Am I— am I doing this?
Janine: Congrats on your elopement.
Keith: Okay. [wheezes] Alright. I pick Joey up.
Ali: [chuckles]
Sylvi: Mhm?
Keith: And I rip off the hoodie.
Sylvi: Uh huh.
Keith: And I run into the sun. Now, I’m having an aneurysm. I don’t know whether to say he bursts into flames— [laughs]
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: And he completely evaporates, or— [laughs] 
Janine: What about the D2 before?
Sylvi: Yeah wait, should we flip a coin?
Keith: Or nothing happens! Okay. Flip a coin, on a two he’s a vampire. Wait! No, wait did we already roll it? Good.
Sylvi: No, you didn’t— no.
Janine: No it’s you. It’s—
Keith: Okay. I thought maybe someone else was going to do it, because I’ve had my eyes—
Sylvi: No— we’re not, I’m not taking—
Janine: No!
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: Okay. How many people right now does Nathaniel think might be vampires or other supernatural beings?
Sylvi: We have two, with Joey added. It’s Cunningham and Joey that we’ve had at least mentioned.
Janine: Plus also the gas-station—
Sylvi: Oh right! Yeah, the gas-station guy!
Keith: Plus the gas-station guy is three, and plus Genie is four.
Ali: Thomas Genie, yeah.
Janine: Does he actually think Genie is a vampire? Or do we think—
Ali: Oh yeah [chuckles]
Sylvi: Yeah, this is actually crucial, cause I was going to have Jenny try and convince him that he is—
Keith: Oh, so Jenny thinks that maybe— well, Sylvi thinks that maybe Jenny thinks that Genie is a vampire, but Nathaniel thinks that he’s a genie.
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: If you can see the look on my face right now, and I’m so happy.
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: I’ve— I’ve tried to imply a couple times, even from when I was playing Genie.
Sylvi: No I— yeah!
Janine: Yeah no, we got it.
Keith: Okay. I’m just making sure that we’re all on the same page.
Ali: Mmm.
Keith: I— I don’t want to roll a D2 to be like, is the supernatural thing real or not.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: But I also don’t wanna roll a D2 every time we encounter one of these, because that’s gonna absolutely make it? Like eventually, we’re not gonna roll four tails in a row, you know?
Sylvi: Yeah, there’ll be a vampire eventually.
Keith: So, I’m thinking that maybe we roll a 1D4 for each time there’s something that’s supernatural— [Ali wheezes and snorts] for each person that might be supernatural. Because there’s four of them.
Sylvi: Ohhh.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: Does that make sense?
Ali: But then what’s the determination?
Keith: So if lands on a— instead of a heads or tails, it’s a heads or tails or tails or tails. So it’d be like, if we rolled a four—
Sylvi: So you just want lower odds.
Keith: I just want lower odds, right.
Ali: Oh, so like everyone is assigned a number out of the four-stack, and then if they roll their number—
Keith: Right. If I roll a four, then that person becomes— the proof comes up that they were supernatural. 
Sylvi: Okay.
Keith: And if it’s not, then they weren’t.
Sylvi: We need to assign a person to each number now.
Keith: I was just thinking it was always going to be four.
Sylvi: Ohh—
Ali and Sylvi: Ohhh! Okay.
Sylvi: You’re rolling a D4 for every person, I understand.
Keith: Right. Yes.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: Do we like this?
Janine: Oh I thought— I thought the thing you wanted to do was assign each person a number—
Ali: Yeah, that’s what I thought.
Janine: And one of us would roll the dice in a way that you couldn’t see?
Keith: Oh! [laughs]
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Janine: And then it would just be, you try a thing, and then we answer like, were they— are they the vampire, and we’re like no, because we know it’s like four, or whatever.
Keith: Okay. There’s one other thing that we can do.
Ali: Mhm? What’s the one other thing that we can do? [laughs]
Keith: I can make Ali decide again. I can get a token and turn this into a seven to nine.
Ali: Oh sure. You’ve really— you just wanna— you wanna have this happen. You don’t wanna make this decision— [laughs]
Keith: I don’t know what to do! I’m stymied.
Ali: You’re stymied? Excuse me?
Keith: Yeah, I’m like stuck.
Ali: Okay [laughs]. Wow. What’s the funnier thing here? I’m trying to think of the history of Bluff City vampires.
Sylvi: We have a couple.
Ali: Have they all just not been able to be in the sun? Have they all just worn big hats?
Sylvi: I don’t know about—
Keith: That is like such a consistent vampire thing, it’s so rare that a vampire, like, you know, some of them don’t care about crosses, some of them don’t care about garlic, some of them don’t count rice. But they all die in the sun, pretty much. At least, even in Twilight, where they don’t die in the sun, they at least are, weird in the sun.
Ali: Mhm. [laughs] I just— we’ve both just messaged Austin at the same time [laughs].
Keith: What’s that?
Sylvi: Cause Austin’s been pinged about vampires.
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith: Okay.
Ali: Cause I— I think the funniest—
Janine: I didn’t think he was even going to see that.
Ali: [chuckles] Yes. There’s something very very very funny about this, in that he is a vampire, but isn’t— [laughs] susceptible to the sun.
Keith: Okay! [laughs] Okay, cause that— that makes me want to roll two dice. Okay. I think that that’s my answer. 
Ali: Hmm?
Keith: It’s not rolling if Joey is a vampire, it’s rolling if the sun affects him.
Sylvi: Oh, so the answer is yes.
Keith: So the—
Sylvi: Is he a vampire, though?
Keith: Well, but if it’s a negative, it could be a false negative.
Sylvi: Okay…
Keith: But if it’s a positive, then it’s definitely it’s positive.
Janine: We might be veering into overcomplication.
Sylvi: That’s what—
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: I don’t know, I don’t think that’s any more complicated than the original 1D4. It just means that it doesn't necessarily mean that he’s not a vampire. It just means I think that he’s not—
Ali: [wheezing]
Sylvi: The original 1D4 is if the original 1D2 didn’t exist.
Ali: Austin says, uhhh, I don’t remember at all, which means that [laughs] it’s completely up to us!
Janine: Alright!
Keith: Alright, I’m rolling a 1D4, and if it’s a 4, he’s a vampire.
Ali: Okay.
Sylvi: Okay.
Janine: Alright.
Ali: Are you rolling that? Am I rolling that?
Keith: Oh! I tried putting it in Twitch. That’s why I—
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith: That’s a four!
Ali: [gasps]
Janine: Oh my god!
Keith: [laughs]
Sylvi: Unbelievable. I’m so happy!
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Holy shit.
Sylvi: I was sitting here, just like, I hope to fucking god it’s a four, it better be a fucking four.
Janine: Hey Austin, we got ourselves a vampire.
Keith: We got a vampire.
Austin: Hi. What?
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: What’s— why— I don’t know—
Ali: Oh hi!
Sylvi: Hey.
Austin: Hi. I’m here, I have to go in like a second, but what do you need to know about vampires?
Ali: We were trying—
Sylvi: We just wanted to know the rules of them in Bluff City?
Ali: Uh huh.
Austin: The rules of them in Bluff City, right.
Sylvi: Like, would the sun kill one?
Austin: Like would the sun kill one.
Ali: Right.
Sylvi: Apparently we were fuzzy on that.
Austin: You know! I’m looking up how many times we’ve mentioned vampires in Bluff City, and I gotta tell you,
Ali: Not much!
Austin: Well the most that they've come up, is in the wrestling game we did.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Huh.
Austin: Cause that’s who we are.
Ali: Well there was a demon in that one, wasn’t there?
Austin: There are plenty of demons of Bluff City. Devils— devils aren’t vampires.
Ali: Ohhh.
Keith: Right.
Austin: That’s the thing.
Ali: Wasn’t Blade in there? Didn’t—
Austin: Yeah, Blade is there and he owns a casino,
Ali: Mhm.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: But,
Janine: It’s not Blade, that would be illegal if it was Blade.
Austin: I’m sorry—
Janine: A different guy.
[Ali snorts]
Austin: Millennium Black, who is distinct, and right, exactly. But, I do think he’s a vampire hunter, but I don’t know if we ever came up with vampire rules, so.
Keith: You can’t be a vampire hunter if he’s not hunting vampires.
Janine: I mean he is a vampire.
Austin: Silver stakes— it looks here like we said, silver stakes.
Ali: Mhm.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: That might be there— so silver is—
Ali: And then he was like in a dark room, wasn’t he in a dark room with a bunch of screens?
Austin: Yeah, because he’s cool.
Ali: Okay, but that’s not an avoiding sunlight thing, so to speak?
Austin: I don’t— I don’t— I mean, they— it’s Bluff City. [Ali chuckles] They probably need to avoid the fucking sun, right?
Keith: Yeah. I feel like Bluff City is about those kinds of things, not avoiding them.
Austin: That’s exactly right. I know in the next Bluff City season that we get to, they will have to avoid the sun. I’m making that rule now.
Ali: Okay!
Austin: I think they’re iconic in that way, you know?
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: I think— okay. Also I think we shouldn’t be afraid to ask ourselves, if you know, what’s cooler is the guy who wants to sell his Goku car getting carried into the sun after his wisdom tooth surgery, is it funnier if he bursts into flames, or if he doesn’t?
Sylvi: If I was really—
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: I wanted to say that just for Austin.
Austin: You’re doing— what?
Janine: I was a hundred percent performing just for Austin, who has no idea what this is about.
Sylvi: Yeah!
Austin: Excuse me?
Ali: [wheezing]
Sylvi: Unincorporated, a small town drama game.
Austin: Yeah, okay.
Keith: This town’s full of vampires, and I’m proving it.
Ali: Uh huh.
Austin: Just get ‘em in the sun.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Sounds like a good way to go.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: Sick.
Ali: Keith’s a hard jock and is able to do this. [wheezing]
Austin: Keith’s a hard jock?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, really hard.
Ali: [snorts]
Austin: Really hard?
Keith: Yeah. As hard as the game lets me be.
Sylvi: It’s crazy.
Austin: As hard as the game lets you be?
Keith: [howls with laughter]
Sylvi: Yeah.
[Ali and Keith just laughing]
Austin: This is live?
Ali: [wheezing]
Austin: You’re on Twitch as hard as you can be?
Keith: [chuckles]
Austin: They’ve walked those rules back???
Keith: [laughs, coughs]
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi: That’s without knowing about the bathroom selfie situation.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Oh, alright I’m gonna go, have fun. You don’t need a file— this is all—
Ali: Yeah, thanks for your— no, no, yeah thanks for joining us.
Austin: I’m glad I could bless you with my expertise.
Keith: Thank you.
Ali: [chuckles]
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith: No tears shed for Joey, huh.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: I mean we’ll see how the scene plays out. Describe it.
Keith: Um! [exhales] 
Janine: You’re essentially murdering a person, what does it feel like?
Keith: This is not a person, this is a vampire.
Janine: Vampires are people.
Keith: Vampires are predators who prey on people.
Janine: Still people. Thisbe’s a person. Thisbe’s not human but Thisbe’s a person.
Keith: But Thisbe’s not a vampire that preys on people either,
Janine: Could be.
Keith: Unless something very interesting is about to go down.
Janine: [chuckles]
Ali: [chuckles] Never say never.
Keith: Nathaniel does not— this is not a person to Nathaniel, so. If this is— if we wanna have—
Janine: Wow.
Keith: If we wanna introduce a broader complication to the idea of murdering vampires, then that’s gonna have to come from somebody else. Nathaniel is not happy with vampires being in the town, and is ready to carry them into the sun. Poof!
Sylvi: Holy shit.
Keith: [makes bursting into flame sounds]
Janine: Does Joey have any final words, Ali? Can we get like, any Joey performance on the way out?
Ali: [giggles]
Ali (as Joey): Put me down bro. Put me down bro! Put me down-!
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh! Oh shit! Oh my god! Oh my god!
Ali: [snorts, wheezes]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I was right!
Ali: [wheezes] The keys and the garlic fall on the grass.
Keith (as Nathaniel): This is bad. This is really bad.
Ali: It smells really good.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh my god. It smells like— I know that it’s garlic, but it smells like orange pith!
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi: You don’t need to fight us right now, Keith.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Something— something happened! It turned garlic into… bitter.
Janine: What?
Keith: Garlic’s not bitter.
Ali: Hm?
Sylvi: [chuckles]
Keith: But orange—
Sylvi: Do they know what you’re doing? The bit is that the vampire burning changed the smell, right?
Keith: Yeah!
Sylvi: Okay.
Ali: Mmm.
Keith: And I just hadn’t— the only other smell that we’ve talked about, besides beef jerky,
Ali: [chuckles] You believe we’ve been talking about smells a lot!
Keith: I’m telling ya! I’m smelling things 24/7!
Sylvi: I mean it’s one of the five senses we don’t get to talk about.
Janine: I think now is probably a good time to announce our collaboration with Gamer Smells.
Ali: [chuckles] I beg your pardon?
Janine: Scents, does— I don’t remember what it’s fucking called.
Sylvi: I, you know, I don’t wanna actually associate with Gamer Smells, personally.
Ali: Wow.
Janine: When you listen to a podcast, there will be little pods—
Keith: In collaboration with Gamer Smells and US Garlic.
Sylvi: Ugh. 
Keith: A conglomeration that deals with garlic and garlic concerns.
Sylvi: Of course.
Keith: I grab the keys and I take the car.
Ali: Wonderful!
Sylvi: Okay! And that’s scene!
Ali: And scene!
Keith: And scene.
Ali: Indeed!
Janine: You still don’t know who’s supposed to get that car, do you?
Ali: [chuckles]
Sylvi: Now you’re never going to know.
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith: No. We’re never going to know.
Ali: [snorts, chuckles] What if—
Janine: Guess you didn’t have to worry about closing that off.
Ali: Well, it could be a vampire waiting for that car.
Janine: That’s true.
Ali: Maybe someone’s going to come— and Nathaniel’s—
Janine: And that car’s not hard— not easy to hide.
Ali: Right! Nathaniel’s sticking his nose in a lot of business that he doesn’t belong in! Plus—
Keith: My nose absolutely belongs in the business of destroying vampires.
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith: Do you know the only way to stop a vampire from killing you? Is to kill the vampire.
Ali: The only way?
Keith: [seriously, softly] Only way.
Ali: [sing-song] I’ve always heard, when someone has a gun to your head, look for a third option! This is a quote from Suits! 
Keith: What’s the— what are the first two options?
Sylvi: Get shot is one, I’m assuming.
Ali: Yeah, get shot, do as he says.
Keith: Oh, okay.
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: It’s more of a two options situation most of the time, really, no one’s—
Ali: Right.
Keith: Sounds like, fight back! [deep and dark voice] Gotta fight back!
Sylvi: I think the people are typically picking “get shot”.
Keith: I feel like “fighting back” is also the “get shot” option.
Sylvi: That is get shot, yeah.
Ali: Well, the third, you know, the third option could be fighting back, but you have to find out what it is. By being a cool and smart New York City lawyer guy.
Sylvi: Oh, okay.
Ali: Who’s always sticking his neck out for his friends, and,
Keith: Woah.
Ali: Doing things— [laughs]
Sylvi: No sticking necks around this town. We’ve got a bloodsucker on it!
Janine: [chuckles]
Ali: Okay. That was a full scene. That was a full round of scenes. Do you guys want to take a five minute break?
Sylvi and Keith: Sure!
Janine: Yeah!
Ali: Okay, perfect. I will be right back, we will be right back. Yeah. 
Janine: We’re back everybody!
Ali: Missing the good stuff.
Sylvi: Yukon Gold!
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: Yukon Gold!
Janine: Yukon Gold. [chuckles]
Ali: [snorts]
Keith: Sorry everyone, you missed it again, we had nine very good potato jokes all in a row.
Janine: That was good though, that was a team-building joke just for us.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: [chuckles] Uh huh. But we’ve returned. Here’s our—
Keith: Here’s our proof!
Ali: —the [laughs]
Keith: [laughs]
Ali’s Final Scene [1:47:32]
Ali: [snorts] This is our third round of scenes for Unincorporated by Ethan Harvey. ethanharvey.itch.io, bringing us back to the game. It’s my scene. And okay, so during the break, we spoke a little bit about pace. And whether we think that this could be our last round or not, it feels like it could be. Cause it feels like it would have to be pretty quick for us not to have to do another one tonight, and then coming back for just one round doesn’t sound good. Which, is what I’m thinking about for my scene, because I was wondering— I was initially like, I don’t— my scene can’t just be, I have the scratch-off ticket, I go cash it in? [chuckles] Like I— I guess it could be. And that’s a thing.
Keith: It could be.
Janine: You have to cash-it in down the street, and anything could happen there.
Ali: Right.
Sylvi: The Gulp n’ Dash.
Janine: Anything could happen on the way down the street.
Ali: Anything could happen.
Janine: At the Gulp n’ Dash.
Ali: This is true, at the Gulp n’ Dash, this is true. Cause I was like if I don’t do that, should I have a Mrs Cunningham scene, should I interact with Denise for some reason. But maybe this is like a, I guess it’s not the best to say this all upfront, but what if this is a Maddie and Nate at the Gulp n’ Dash situation— we both go inside. You notice that I’m cashing this lottery ticket.
Janine: Oooh!
Ali: And then it becomes a— not a fisticuffs, but a [chuckles] conflict of some sorts.
Keith: I sure hope not.
Janine: That could be dangerous. Nate did just kill.
Ali: Nate just killed— shaken from the— well,
Janine: He has the taste for blood. But not a vampire taste.
Ali: Sure.
Janine: Just a normal kind of taste, for blood.
Ali: I’m not a vampire, though.
Keith: A healthy taste for blood— well, you’re not a vampire, that you know of.
Ali: [chuckles] Okay—! Now, okay.
Sylvi: Woah!
Ali: You had one positive.
Keith: Maddie might be a vampire—
Janine: Cashing someone else’s lottery ticket is a very vampire thing to do if you ask me.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: It— I just want everybody to think about— [wheezes]
Janine: [laughs]
Ali: What they would do, if they were in Maddie’s situation.
Sylvi: Uh huh.
Ali: And some fucking weirdo from work, who’s always—
Keith: I would go to the rich lady who thought that she was getting a free dresser because she found a lottery ticket, and say, “sorry, this lottery ticket didn’t work, this lottery ticket you found and tried to give to me didn’t work, so you need to actually pay for your thing”. At least, try!
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: I would at least try to do that one time!
Ali: Well… I mean you don’t think I tried when she gave me the ticket?
Keith: No!
Ali (as Maddie): Can you please cash in this ticket for me?
Janine: Wait, the— [trails off]
Ali (as Maddie): Hi, can you cash in this ticket for me?
Keith (as cashier): Yeah, let’s do that.
Janine: Do we know— wait, you’re Nate though.
Ali: [laughs] Yeah, you’re going to be Nate in this scene.
Keith: Well, no one jumped in, so I jumped in.
Janine: I was about to ask.
Sylvi: Oh yeah, no you gotta—
Keith: No no no—
Sylvi (as cashier): Is this a legally acquired ticket here? Yeah, let me just take that from you.
Ali: [wheezes] Janine?
Sylvi: Sorry.
Janine: I was just about to say, do we know this person, but no I think Sylvi nailed it, we’re good.
Ali (as Maddie): Uh yeah, hi.
Sylvi (as cashier): Hey what’s up.
Ali (as Maddie): Can you cash in this ticket for me?
Sylvi (as cashier): It’s one of the three things they have me do here, yeah.
Ali (as Maddie): [chuckles] Nice.
Sylvi (as cashier): Do you want a slushie while you wait? This is gonna take a minute, the machine’s slow.
Ali (as Maddie): Uhhh, what flavours do you—
Sylvi (as cashier): That’s one of the other things that I do here, it’s the slushies.
Ali (as Maddie): What flavours do you got.
Sylvi (as cashier): Blue and red.
Ali (as Maddie): Mmmm… do I get them myself, or do I have to request?
Sylvi (as cashier): I give you a cup, and then, I guess it’s not really a thign I do here. I guess the cup is the thing that I do here, but, you know.
Ali (as Maddie): Well, you make the machine work here, don’t— don’t discredit yourself.
Sylvi (as cashier): Hey thanks, lady.
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Maddie): Thanks right back at you, I’m going to get a slurpie— a slushie, sorry.
Sylvi (as cashier): Yeah no, don’t— we got sued last time we tried calling them that.
Ali: [chuckles]
Sylvi: [beep boop noises] That’s him using the machine.
Ali: I put in a little bit of blue. And then I put in a lot of red. And then I put in a lot of red— or, a lot of blue, [laughs]
Janine: Vampire’s blend.
Ali: And then I put in a little bit of red.
Sylvi (as cashier): Impressive layering technique!
Ali (as Maddie): Thank you, thank you.
Keith: [door bell sounds]
Ali (as Maddie): What’s up, Nate?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh, nothing, just thirsty. I’ve had a really normal trip here.
Ali: [wheezes, snorts]
Keith (as Nathaniel): But I worked up a thirst.
Sylvi (as cashier): Ey what’s up big dog, the usual?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, large— a slushie, a red then lot of blue, then red, then blue, then red.
Sylvi (as cashier): Beef jerky as well, or you good on that?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Six. Six beef jerkies.
Ali: [snorts]
Sylvi (as cashier): Alright, hold up. 
Sylvi: For some reason, I have to go under the counter to get these six beef jerkies.
Keith: Well, if you get it from in front of the cash rack, then you’re going to have to restock them, so you might as well get them from the big box.
Sylvi: Yeah, cause I’m already here.
Keith: Right.
Keith (as Nathaniel): What are you doing?
Sylvi (as cashier): Oh. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, not— sorry.
Sylvi (as cashier): Oh. Sorry, man!
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, we’re— no, it’s fine, I just, I, I know her. From work.
Ali (as Maddie): Right.
Sylvi (as cashier): Yeah, for sure.
Ali (as Maddie): Yeah, you know, picking up a slushie, cashing my lottery ticket.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Aren’t you on the clock, still?
Ali (as Maddie): I’m on break.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Weren’t you on break, like, two hours ago?
Ali (as Maddie): What’s it to you?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’m just wondering.
Ali (as Maddie): [scoffs] [to the cashier] How’s the machine doing?
Sylvi (as cashier): Oh, almost there! I just got it.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh! Sorry, thought you were talking about me.
Sylvi (as cashier): How’s the machine doing, man? You’re looking brolic these days!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uhhh yes. Been an intense summer, you know? Just trying to stay huge.
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi (as cashier): Mission accomplished, bro.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvi: How do— hey, here’s a question that I don’t know an answer to, Sylvi, out of character. How do they give you the money for lottery after your ticket gets— is it a cheque? Is it—
Keith: No, it’s cash.
Ali: It’s cash, yeah.
Janine: That’s why there’s that limit on like, how much they can give?
Keith: Yeah, I looked it up, in New Jersey—
Janine: And certain establishments can give more, cause a lot of them don’t have a thousand bucks sitting around.
Sylvi: Ohhhkay.
Keith: Last time we did this, I looked it up, and in New Jersey it is like $450.
Ali: Or wasn’t it $999.90 or some shit?
Janine: That was like Canadian.
Keith: That was Janine talking about Canada.
Ali: [chuckles] Okay!
Janine: And that was also like, only some stores would do that?
Ali: Okay.
Janine: Others had a lower limit.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Well, this is fantasy New Jersey, and they upped the limit to a thousand dollars. A thousand and fifty dollars.
Janine: This is a casino city, they’re gonna give you your fucking lottery money.
Sylvi (as cashier): Yeah, do you want this in singles, fives— like, what do you want this in?
Ali (as Maddie): Ummm,
Keith (as Nathaniel): What, excuse me?
Ali (as Maddie): Can I—
Keith (as Nathaniel): What?
Sylvi (as cashier): Her— she gave me a scratch off ticket, um.
Keith (as Nathaniel): She gave you a scratch off ticket?
Ali (as Maddie): Uh huh. Can I get—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Maddie, where did you— what did you— why do you have that? Eddy had that.
Janine: Nate knows— just as a heads up, Nate knows that Maddie has the ticket.
Keith: Oh, I do?
Janine: Yeah, I ratted Maddie out to Nate. Cause remember, I like came to you when you were having your lunch, and was like “heyyyy, just so you know, as a neutral third party,”
Ali: Mhm.
Sylvi: Cause that’s how we got the phone call, right?
Keith: But you told me that time that you had it, and since then you’ve given it back to Maddie, so I thought that Nate was under the impression that Eddy had it.
Janine: No that’s fair, okay. I just wanted to make sure that— we’re all on the same page there.
Ali (as Maddie): Can I get nine hundred-dollar bills, four twenties, a ten, and two fives?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh, hey, sorry. She— she can’t get that. That ticket’s not hers.
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs]
Sylvi (as cashier): Uhh, what do you mean? You gotta— she handed it to me—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Right. Well, this ticket was stolen from me, and my friend Eddy was holding onto it, and I don’t know why she has it, but that’s why she’s cashing it here, and not where we work, at Mosier’s Grocers, where of course we have our own lottery machine. Because she’s being sneaky.
Ali (as Maddie): That is broken. And it is a thousand dollar ticket that I am in possession of, and that is mine, and—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, you’re in possession of it because you stole it. That’s what stealing is!
Janine: That’s the most suspicious way to say you have it.
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: Yeah, I’m in possession, yeah—
Janine: I’m in possession of it!
Ali: [wheezing] That’s how the lottery ticket works!
Sylvi: While—
Keith: There’s no—
Janine: There’s also a crime called felony possession but—
Keith: [incredulous] When you steal something, you always are in possession of it!
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: While this argument is going on, this like, very reedy nineteen year old teen cashing out the fucking like, like counting out this very specific denominations that Maddie gave them.
Ali (as Maddie): How many people have you come in here, who have said, oh that guy is winning money, that’s my money! You’re gonna believe him?
Sylvi (as cashier): Well, like I know him…
Keith (as Nathaniel): I come here three times a week! I told him about the ticket! Like, ten days ago! 
Ali (as Maddie): That’s my lottery ticket. It was given to me.
Sylvi (as cashier): What—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Come on.
Ali (as Maddie): It was given to me.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You remember. Do you see, do you see that?
Sylvi (as cashier): Hey man, hey. I’m just— conflict resolution is not one of the three things I do here, so.
Keith (as Nathaniel): What is the third thing?
Sylvi (as cashier): The beef jerky I hand you, I supply people with snacks.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay.
Sylvi (as cashier): Snacks, slushies,
Keith (as Nathaniel): Lottery.
Sylvi (as cashier): Yeah, I couldn’t think of an ‘S’ for that one.
Ali (as Maddie): Solve…ing
Keith (as Nathaniel): Scratch.
Ali (as Maddie): Scratch!
Sylvi (as cashier): Scratch-cards, there we go. Thank you big man.
Ali (as Maddie): Solitaire? No.
Sylvi (as cashier): No. We do have a solitaire—
Keith (as Nathaniel): I think scratch, I think—
Ali (as Maddie): Service! You’re providing a service, and it’s to give me my earnings.
Sylvi (as cashier): Right! Yeah, um, sorry that was nine— nine hundred, four twenties,
Ali (as Maddie): Mhm.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Right, sorry. She didn’t earn that. That’s— again, that’s stolen.
Sylvi (as cashier): But— oh.
Ali (as Maddie): It was not stolen.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay.
Ali (as Maddie): It was given to me, in exchange—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Well you see how— I’m sorry, I don’t know if I’ve ever gotten your full name?
Sylvi (as cashier): Uhh, it’s—
Keith (as Nathaniel): But I only need the first half. First name.
Sylvi: Shit. What’s—
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: You want to bust out the random name generator?
Sylvi: Yeah, hold on, hold on, I don’t have my name generator.
Janine: Random person/name generator. Thomas Barefield? That’s a terrible—
Sylvi: I can’t name him Thomas, that’s my boyfriend’s name—
Keith: We also already have a Thomas in the—
Ali: [chuckles]
Janine: Right. Okay, rerolling that one. 
Sylvi: [chuckles] I got Rudolph.
Keith: Rudolph.
Ali: Ooooh.
Janine: Wooow.
Sylvi: I mean it’s—
Janine: What’s—
Keith: Rudy.
Sylvi: Rudy.
Janine: I have a question. What’s his website?
Sylvi: Oh I didn’t—
Ali: [cackles]
Sylvi: I didn’t use that one.
Sylvi: I just used like, the first one I could get.
Janine: Ohhh, that’s a shame. Okay, okay. Fair enough.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Rudy. When someone cashes in a ticket, and someone else comes in and say, they stole this from me, they stole this from me. And then they say, no, I was given it, isn’t that a little suspicious to you?
Sylvi (as Rudy): I gotta be honest, man, both— like I’m not saying I don’t wanna be rude, but neither of you are really— it’s kinda—
Ali (as Maddie): If he found the ticket on the floor—
Sylvi (as Rudy): I’m making minimum wage, man!
Ali (as Maddie): If you found a ticket on the floor—which I didn’t even do in this situation—but if you found a lottery ticket on the floor, and it was a winner, what would you do?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh my god.
Sylvi (as Rudy): I mean I’d probably— I’d probably cash it in.
Ali (as Maddie): Exactly!
Keith (as Nathaniel): I know how to solve this. I know how to solve this!
Sylvi (as Rudy): Uhhh.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Because here’s the thing. Most people who cash in lottery tickets, buy their tickets. I didn’t— I didn’t find this on the floor. I wasn’t given it by a stranger. I bought it, and I carried it around, for three days, and then I lost it/it was stolen from me—
Sylvi (as Rudy): So you have a receipt, is what you’re saying?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Why don’t you do me a favour— I didn’t have a receipt, per se, but what I do have, is a really good friend, named Rudy—
Ali (as Maddie): [whispering] Oh my god.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Who’s going to take a sniff of that ticket— take a sniff of that ticket!
Sylvi (as Rudy): What?
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s in your hand—
Sylvi (as Rudy): Hold on.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Just give it a whiff!
Sylvi (as Rudy): Hold on! Okay, wait. Hold up.
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi (as Rudy): Where’s the third one of you guys? I’ve— I use TikTok man, I know what’s going on here, you’re going to make me smell this receipt, and it’s going to be stinky.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s going to be stinky, I’ll tell you what it’s gonna— no. I’m not going to tell you what it smells like, because I don’t wanna colour—
Sylvi (as Rudy): Yeah cause I don’t wanna be pranked at work, man.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s not a prank! I, you know, 
Keith: What do you— what do you say to someone to convince someone that it’s not a prank?
Janine: Is this a roll?
Keith: My—
Sylvi: I’m aiming for a roll here.
Ali: [chuckles]
Ali (as Maddie): Rudolph. I don’t wanna waste your time. Could you please do one of your three tasks, and cash the lottery ticket? We’ll leave and this won’t be a problem for you anymore.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Rudy, it’s just a sniff. Just give it a sniff, and it’ll prove everything.
Ali: [snorts, wheezes] Okay, this is a— I feel like— is this a roll against Nate, or is this a roll against Rudy?
Sylvi: I feel like you’re trying to convince me.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: So I— like, I mean, okay wait, I’m going to look at the—
Janine: I have a suggestion though.
Ali: Please.
Sylvi: Okay.
Janine: Which is that— is the roll not, “will Rudolph smell the ticket, yes or no?” Is the roll “does Eddy have a smell that is stronger than Nate’s meat smell?”
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Ali: [whispering] Jesus Christ.
Keith: [laughs] Okay! Hold on. It did smell like beef, just earlier.
Ali: [wheezes, snorts]
Janine: Well, kind of.
Ali: How much— how long do you expect that beef smell to last?
Janine: It’s been in his pocket.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: If it’s been in Eddy’s pocket for maybe as long as it was ever in Nate’s—
Ali: Right, it’s been aired out—
Keith: I don’t mind this. Where I thought you were going, I do like the idea— cause I was also going to suggest something where Rudy smells the ticket no matter what because it just seems reasonable that someone would do that. That someone would—
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi: I also— I mean, sure.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah, let’s say that. 
Keith: If someone— I can prove that a crime was being committed, all I need you to do is smell— [laughs]
Ali: What are they going to do after that, call the cops? Like, this is a nineteen year old—
Keith: No! It won’t call the cops, it’s just whether they— whether they think that that’s enough evidence, but I don’t— I also like the other smell view. It smells no matter what, but does it smell like beef, or does it smell like whatever the fuck Eddy smells like?
Ali: Okay. And then, attached to that— [laughs]
Janine: Yeah?
Ali: Whether or not, they are so swayed by the smell of this thing, yeah, that you’re gonna risk your job, or whatever else, to be like yeah, I’m gonna give somebody else the money?
Janine: Can I propose that this is actually 2.5 rolls.
Ali: [whispers] Oh my god. No.
Sylvi: Wow.
Ali: No, you cannot. This is the one roll.
Janine: No, listen, listen, listen! The first roll,
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: Is me versus Keith. Whoever gets the higher number, that’s what it smells like. The second roll, is the sort of determining takeaway of this. Does— you know, is the cashier actually going to follow that, or are they going to say like, no I don’t wanna do this, like—
Keith: I think that by—
Janine: That’s the second tier of it.
Keith: You know, I’m not you know, morally against this. But I think just by the rules of what happens when you succeed or fail, it doesn’t work? Because then I would have to succeed on two rolls in order for it to not go to Ali, which means that Ali—
Janine: No, I think the first roll doesn’t really matter. It’s like, flavour.
Keith: Okay.
Janine: For the second roll.
Ali: It’s not flavour, it’s like scent.
Janine: Which is like, what people actually do. Yes.
Sylvi: I mean, that’s part of your—
Janine: A scented flavour.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: It’s really more of a descriptor storytelling roll, the first one. That’s why I said 2.5, because it’s not like 3, it’s not, you know.
Keith: And so— so the first roll is just to determine what it smells like?
Ali: Uh huh. And I would roll to actually complete the scene [wheezes].
Keith: I— I feel like, if it smells like beef, that solves it.
Ali: How would that solve—! [laughs]
Keith: Because I buy six packs of beef from this guy!
Janine: Yeah, but this guy gives out six packs of beef— this guy is standing over here all of the time—
Keith: No one knows— no one buys more beef—
Ali: [laughing] Keith, I know— [wheezes]
Janine: They might just— he might just be like, it always smells like beef in here. 
Keith: And I knew what it smelled like!
Janine: Words can say anything! We can do anything you want with words.
Ali: [wheezing] Keith…
Keith: But this is— this is exactly what failing a roll is meant to do! Yeah.
Ali: I understand that you’re really trying to believe in Nate in this situation, [wheezes] but in your heart of hearts, if you worked in a 7-11, and some guy was like, no, that’s definitely my thousand dollars, it has to be because it smells like beef, that is not enough to give— [wheezes]
Keith: It absolutely is enough. You’ve already admitted to not having purchased the ticket yourself, and then, it’s not just that it smells like beef, it’s that I knew ahead of time it smelled like beef!
Janine: I mean that, the roll that determines if this succeeds or fails will happen either way, the other roll will have nothing to do with it.
Ali: Mhm. Yep. [wheezes]
Janine: It is purely a roll for… fun. Either way, the roll is going to come down to Ali, in terms of like, actual success versus failure.
Keith: Okay. I think it’s goofy, but I don’t care.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Again, words could be anything, like we could— it could smell more like Eddy, but then the cashier’s like, you know, lottery counter code whatever the fuck, it could— we can do anything to explain anything!
Keith: It’s true! We just had the smells like beef thing since like the first scene.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Smells change!
Sylvi: Yeah, I was like, that’s why I was like, it could’ve changed. Because we’ve had it since the first scene.
Janine: Eddy has his own smells. And also the gas station guy might be immune to beef smell because he’s always got the beef right there.
Sylvi: Oh, what if he doesn’t have smell?
Ali: Mmm.
Janine: Anything could happen. Words could mean anything. Keith, let’s roll 1D4 each.
Keith: So— wait, so now we’ve got an NPC— we’ve got a secondary character that’s rolling?
Sylvi: No, I’m not—
Ali: This is just— [wheezes]
Janine: No! This is Eddy’s stink versus Nate’s stink, so Eddy player and Nate player are rolling against each other [chuckles].
Keith: Okay.
Janine: It’s so important to me that we do this completely unnecessary—
Keith: And if this lands on a four, is this guy a vampire?
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: [laughs] This is purely higher number. Whoever has the higher number has the stronger smell.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvi: Innovating in the tabletop space.
Janine: We are!
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: We’re fucking genre-defining content. Count me in Keith, count me into a roll.
Sylvi: Yeah!
Keith: Yeah, I’m ready to roll, you’re ready to roll? Three, two, one, go.
[click sounds]
Ali: That’s a Nate smell.
Keith: Janine wins.
Janine: Three. Edged you out barely— so I think there’s probably like, a note of beef?
Ali: [snorts]
Janine: Underneath.
Ali: Okay.
Janine: But I think over top, is probably like, fuck, like Armani Code or something? Like a really aggressive,
Keith: Eugh.
Janine: A very aggressive—
Keith: Like a cipher?
Sylvi: No…
Janine: No. A really aggressive like, cologne, yeah. That is sort of like, mixing in with the beefiness, and it’s a little bit like ehhh, it could go either way, you know?
Keith: Sure.
Ali: Okay. Well I’m rolling a 2D6 plus one against—
Keith: For what, Prep?
Ali: Rudolph, yeah Prep. To see if they’ll just give me—
Janine: This is very Prep.
Ali: [chuckles] Just give me my money.
Sylvi: That’s a nine!
Ali: And that’s a nine. One a seven to nine, you succeed but your target chooses— no no no no. On a seven to nine, you succeed, but other players can suggest a complication, choose one or more of their suggestions and use it to continue, or I can spend my token to make it a full success.
Sylvi: That is true as well.
Ali: And, being that this is my last scene, [wheezes]
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith: My suggestion is that if you cash in this cheque, I’m going to report you to the police.
Ali: [wheezes] What!
Sylvi: I think Ali will spend—
Keith: [shouting away from the mic] IT’S MY THOUSAND DOLLARS! WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT! WHAT!
Janine: [laughs]
Ali: [stifling and biting down her laughter]
Keith: It’s part of the rules of the game! It’s mine! It’s mine, it’s mine! It’s mine! Per the rules!
Ali: [still wheezing, then calms down] Well, I’m going to be spending this token that I have.
Sylvi: Yeah, sorry Keith.
Keith: Wait, what?
Sylvi: The token means ten!
Keith: No, not when you act against the environment! That’s only when you act against a PC—
Sylvi: No it says again, on—
Ali: It’s anything but another PC.
Keith: No, when you act against the environment, a secondary character, laws of physics, or anything but another PC you can change— oh you can change, okay.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: In the other set— in the other set, it says them in the roll thing, it says—
Sylvi: Yeah it does.
Ali: Sure.
Keith: So it wasn’t in there, so I didn’t see.
Ali: [chuckles]
Ali (as Maddie): Can I have my money please?
Sylvi (as Rudy): Yeah, here you go. I don’t know— what was the prank with the receipt? It kind of just smelled like a divorced guy.
Ali (as Maddie): Don’t worry about it.
Janine: [indignant] Eddy’s never been divorced!
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: How dare you.
Sylvi: He can smell like it.
Janine: No one would marry him in the first place, I’ll have you know!
Ali: [laughs] She pays for her slushie with Apple Pay. And then she takes the twenty dollar bills, and puts it into the tip jar—
Keith: Can we success— is there any argument we can make that this isn’t acting against another PC? It sure feels like acting against me.
Janine: The roll was against the cashier, though, not against you.
Ali: It literally wasn’t! [wheezes]
Keith: Well but that’s— that is only because we decided that’s what the roll was.
Janine: It was what does the cashier do? You both presented your cases.
Ali: Mhm.
Janine: But it was, what does this cashier do? That’s environment.
Ali: Yeah. Plus it’s my scene.
Janine: Not a PC character.
Ali: And it’s my plot [wheezes]. And it’s my money.
Keith: It’s my plot! It’s not your plot, it’s my plot! It wasn’t your plot, it was my plot!
Sylvi: Yes it was!
Janine: Your plot is delivering a car.
Sylvi: Yeah, Ali’s plot literally says, Denise owes you money but paid you a scratch-off instead, turns out it’s stolen property and belongs to Nathaniel Munth. But it is Ali’s plot, like, by the rules of the game.
Ali (as Maddie): See ya at work, Nate.
Sylvi: I think this— hey, it’s kinda fucked up, like.
Ali: [wheezing]
Sylvi: Don’t get me wrong.
Janine: I went to bat for you man, I tried.
Keith (as Nathaniel): This is horrible. 
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Horrible, horrible, horrible man. What a horrible, horrible thing to do.
Sylvi (as Rudy): Sorry man, do you still want your jerky, or?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No. Fuck you.
Janine: Why do you smell like ashes?
Sylvi (as Rudy): Dude, alright man. I’m— she had— you didn’t have the receipt, bro, and I thought it was like—
Keith (as Nathaniel): SHE DIDN’T HAVE A RECEIPT EITHER! WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
Janine: Oh my god.
Sylvi (as Rudy): But she—
Ali: [wheezing]
Sylvi (as Rudy): She had the ticket!
Keith (as Nathaniel): BUT I SAID SHE STOLE IT!
Sylvi (as Rudy): Yeah, but like—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Rudy.
Sylvi (as Rudy): It’s just words, man.
Ali: I just want to say, to interject, a scratch-off ticket, it’s like one of the most gifted items in the world. [wheezes]
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: The like, [wheezing] you had to buy it thing is not true.
Sylvi: It’s not! 
Ali: Parents and grandfathers across the nation are giving out scratch tickets as gifts.
Keith: Right, but usually you don’t have someone chasing them into stores being like, she stole this from me! She stole this from me!
Ali: Well.
Keith: This was stolen from me.
Sylvi (as Rudy): I thought you guys were doing a TikTok, I’m so sorry.
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi (as Rudy): I, for real, just thought you were going to give me all the money at the end, like it was going to be some, like, like that was the twist and you guys were good Samaritans— I don’t know man, I just… I’ll give you like a free bag of jerky if you don’t yell at me again.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [low, growling] I’m never coming back again.
Sylvi (as Rudy): Okay, nice knowing you.
Ali: [wheezing]
Janine: Woah.
Sylvi (as Rudy): See you later big dog.
Ali: [wheezes] And, scene! Jenny! [wheezing]
Sylvi’s Final Scene [2:14:07]
Sylvi: Holy fuck, yeah. 
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Hey you wanna go into the woods and do a ritual, or do you just wanna skip to the main event ritual?
Keith (as Nathaniel): [depressed, growling] I don’t know, I don’t care about the vampires anymore.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Wow! Really?
Ali: [wheezing]
Janine: Woah.
Sylvi: Wait, do we like genuinely need to take a sec?
Keith: No, no no.
Sylvi: Okay.
Janine: Remember the time that Ali stole a thousand dollars from Keith?
Ali: [wheezes] In real life! Yeah.
Keith: I needed that money.
Ali: Everybody does.
Keith: But it was mine.
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: Nate just sitting in the parking lot, looking out at the sky.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Hey man, cheer up. We’re gonna go on some vampires, bro.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [disinterested] I already did.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): You already did?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. Fuckin’... Joey idiot whatever turned into a vampire.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Joey Trevino was a vampire?!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah… he burst into flames.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): What?
Ali: [snorts, wheezes]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Hold on. Hold on, hold on, hold on.
Janine: Looking for the TikTok camera guy.
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): What?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, I was losing my mind over it, but. 
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Joey.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Who sold us weed in eleventh grade?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Huh.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, he was acting really weird, and laying out hints that he was probably a vampire, and so uhh, when he wouldn’t touch that garlic that I brought him, I just sort of yanked him into the sun, and he just sorta poofed.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): What the fu— you’re fucking with me.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Nope. 
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Is that why you smell weird?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t know what I smell like.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Sorry, man. Okay— well shit! I figured that would make you more jazzed to do all the spooky wooo stuff, you know? We got the—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, I was, I mean. I don’t know, I, you know. I probably gotta just skip town.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): What?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Well, it’s full of vampires, and I just don’t have—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): But weren’t we going to—
Keith (as Nathaniel): I just don’t have the drive anymore.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): What happened to you, man?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Jenny stole a thousand dollars from me! What are you talking about—
Keith: No, not Jenny. Maddie stole a thousand dollars from me.
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I did no such thing!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Maddie stole a thousand dollars from me.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Well, like we could do a spell on her too.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t know, I don’t— I mean I don’t even know what kind of spell. Give me a thousand dollars—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Like a “give me back my money” spell. We got a spell— I stole a spell book for this specific reason, I sure I’ve got something like that.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t know any spells like that. If the book has spells like that—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Come on, man! It’ll cheer you up if we go do a ritual or two.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I think that you don’t think that this is real.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I… I mean.
Keith (as Nathaniel): And so I just want you to be very careful about suggesting that we start doing spells on people.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No, listen! I’m like—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Because like, it will work. I’m telling you now, it will work.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Well so like, why don’t we start with the people we think are vampires, then? Like, you know, I don’t know, we could do like I don’t know, Mr. Genie or something? Like we could start with that, and then see how it goes?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Mr. Genie’s not a vampire, are you insane? He’s a genie.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Nate?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I would appreciate it if you didn’t make me feel stupid for trying to believe in the things you do.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Sorry. I’m sorry! It’s just— it’s in the name! He’s not even trying to hide it. He walks around making jokes about wishes all the time.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I know. But Joey wasn’t named Joey Vampire. It’s not Mrs. Nosferatu that we’re trying to figure out what’s going on with.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah..! Yeah, sure. But I just feel like, Genie’s like just rubbing people’s face in the fact that he’s a genie!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): But like, there’s no bottle.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You talk about his name, and he says, “and it doesn’t mean what you think it means”.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): But like see, here’s my theory is, he’s always slurping on those juice boxes, and what if there’s blood in those?
Keith (as Nathaniel): It just feels like it’d be easier to not be slurping on juice boxes all day.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Well yeah! But he also says he has seasonal allergies and he works in the floral department, like, I don’t know if he’s an easy way kinda guy.
Keith (as Nathaniel): That’s weird. But I had a cat, and I was allergic to the cat.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I love that cat too.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Come on. Let’s go to the forest! 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Alright!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I wanna like try— okay, now that I heard that Joey turned into a fireball, like. Also, was there like a, did he leave like a person-shaped like hole in the ground, or like you know burn marks, like in Looney Tunes when Wile E. Coyote runs into the thing?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Aw.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It looks like shoveled a fire pit into a sweatshirt.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): That’s kind disappointing, but.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. He didn’t even scream or anything, he just went like, “put me down!” and then, poof.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Well yeah, he had his wisdom teeth out, right? I think I saw someone posting about that on Facebook?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t— I don’t think vampires get their wisdom teeth out. I think it was something else.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay.
Sylvi: I don’t— this scene started before I even figured out what it was, so now I— [chuckles] What’s this— should we do this ritual— like what is— have I convinced you to do this ritual, or is that the roll?
Keith: Uhh, I’ll do it.
Sylvi: Okay.
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi: Okay.
Keith: Not happy about it.
Sylvi: I really— we’re like driving, are we driving? We’re driving there! Is like,
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I know that you’re sad, like.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Take the Goku car.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Take the Goku car— dude! Dude, you’re sad!
Sylvi: And like does the thing where it’s like, hits you lightly in the back like, on the arm with the back of her hand?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Dude, you got the Goku car! This thing’s definitely worth at least a thousand bucks.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Joey spent over a year trying to sell this. It’s worth nothing.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Well! Denise— didn’t you say like, there was someone who was going to buy it, and you were going to bring it there?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, but I don’t know what it says on the thing. Stupid Joey.
Ali: [chuckles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Well like, oh shoot, I was going to say, you could just get the money, but you can’t really ask him anymore now, and um. But hey, man, free car! Now I don’t have to drive you to work as often.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Except I have to pay for gas, and—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): You are such a downer today! 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Well, it’s been a long day.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah… man, I was, I skipped work for this, though. Like I just, you know. Little bit of energy would be nice.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [grumpy but relenting] Okay.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Thank you.
Ali: [chuckles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay, now.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Hold on. I gotta charge it up.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): The— what are you— oh, your energy.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yup.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Oh dude, like Goku! Sick, man.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Not like, Goku. But like, not like not like Goku.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No yeah, I know, I just— I was saying it was cool. Do you have like equipment— do you like need— I didn’t look at the book at that much, I know we gotta draw sigils of some kind.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I got my eye shut tight, hold on.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay. [whispering] Fuckin…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Charging up.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Give me a sec.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): There’s your iPhone over here. Yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I have a Windows phone!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I know you do, that’s why I said that!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Insane if you didn’t know that I had a Windows phone.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): What’s your battery at?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Eighty five percent.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay. How about now?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Because it’s got a replaceable battery, so I can replace the battery—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I was talking about your energy charge.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh. Uhh, seventy percent.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Hey, so wha— here’s the thing, if you can answer questions while you’re sort of in your meditative state here.
Keith (as Nathaniel): One sec, hold on. [makes shouting noises as he slaps his cheeks] Okay.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Don’t do— I hate when you do that, so much.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’m good.
Sylvi: Also wait, were you driving the Goku car while doing all that?
Keith: Uhh yeah, I drive with my knees.
Sylvi: Cool, perfect. I forgot the question I was gonna ask. Oh.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah, so wait, why don’t we like go around and like, get everybody into the sunlight that we think is a vampire?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Well, so I— here’s the thing. My experience with Joey is that they say no.
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Because they know about— they know about the sun, also.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Well that makes sense.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Right.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): So I had to grab Joey, and like, yank him.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): That— oh, that seems like— yeah?
Keith (as Nathaniel): And then poof.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Wow.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Or was like, [more intense burning sound], like that.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): That’s kinda— are you, that was, sounds kinda scary. So yeah, never mind. I prefer the indirect magic route.
Sylvi: I’m running out of riffing, out of character?
Keith: Let’s do a spell then!
Sylvi: Let’s do a spell. What is the spell trying to do, is my— who do we want to target first? I guess the librarian.
Keith: Well did you get something of Ms. Cunningham?
Sylvi: I did fail that roll.
Keith: Yeah, you did. So I guess not Cunningham. 
Janine: Do you have a discarded juice box perhaps?
Sylvi: That is a really funny— yeah, I do, I think.
Janine: [chuckles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): And then listen, if it doesn’t work out, we can like do a— is there like a genie mining spell in there? Because then we could get wishes, and you can wish that there’s no vampires in town. Sorry I realized what I was saying while I was saying it, and I’m still kind of coming to terms with the fact that I kind of believe you now?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, I mean I don’t know what else to say besides that it totally happened, and if there is a vampire, they will explode just like Joey did.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I just— I kinda want to make sure I’m there next time, you know?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah. I mean the proof will be when you never see Joey again. So it’ll be a really tough lie.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Oh no, I meant like, I wanna— I just think it would look cool.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay, sure.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): What you were describing happened. I’m— you know.
Keith (as Nathaniel): We could try to teleport someone.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay wait, it’s like still day time.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Right, teleport them into the sun.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): We could teleport him here, I’ve got shitty little juice box that I bet had blood in it, but I’m not— I don’t wanna—
Keith (as Nathaniel): You have it? Open it!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No dude, that’s grody!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay, I’ll open it.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Eugh. Is there blood in there?
Keith: [chuckles] I think that this might be the 1-4 roll.
Sylvi: Yeah wait, hold up [laughs]. 
Keith: Okay. Slash roll, 1D—
Sylvi: I was gonna do it.
Keith: Oh this your roll, yeah you can do it, you can do it.
Sylvi: It’s a one.
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, it’s apple juice. 
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay, well. That doesn’t prove anything.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t think vampires drink apple juice?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): But like…
Keith (as Nathaniel): We can summon him anyway.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No cause then he— he’s gonna be why are you summoning me? Man, I guess we could.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Ohhh, he’ll freak the fuck out is what he’ll do if we [chuckles] teleport him, that’s crazy!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah, I gotta—
Keith (as Nathaniel): We could still do it, but he’ll just freak out.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I got way too acclimated to all this stuff too quickly, huh.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Do you have— have you got on to the gas station?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Which one. Gulp n’ Dash?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Gulp n’ Dash— no, not Gulp n’ Dash, the other one. The other one that just says Gas Station on it.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Ohhhh! Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): That guy’s a vampire. That guy’s a vampire for sure.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Ohh. Do you—
Keith (as Nathaniel): That guy’s like the sire vampire, like—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Do we have a way to teleport him here? Cause if, I mean like—
Keith (as Nathaniel): If you have a receipt— I don’t go there because I know about that he’s a vampire. Oh, wait!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Wha–?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Maybe Joey went there. Something in the car, find something in the car that’s like a receipt from that gas station.
Sylvi: Okay, so another roll for us now to find out if Joey was at that gas station?
Keith: This is— I think the roll of the scene.
Sylvi: Okay. So for this ritual, what do you think— what stat do you think I’m rolling? I know, I kind of assumed Goth, because I’m casting a ritual here.
Ali: Mmmm.
Sylvi: But if we think this is Nerd or something else.
Ali: I don’t know if—
Keith: So this is Goth. This is absolutely Goth.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah, okay.
Ali: Yeah, nothing could be more Goth.
Keith: Eleven.
Sylvi: I rolled an eleven.
Ali: Wow.
Keith: Okay. And now, we have to do another 1D4.
Sylvi: We do, for the gas station guy?
Keith: Yeah. Cause he teleports! Right?
Sylvi: Oh, I rolled another one.
Keith: Who wants to be the gas station guy?
Janine: I can— sorry.
Ali: Sure— [laughs]
Keith: Different gas station? [chuckles]
Janine: Different gas station, are we the Gulp n’ Clean now or something? 
Keith: No that’s— no you’re just called— it just says Gas, it’s just a place with the sign that says ‘Gas’.
Janine: Ah right, this is— oh right, this is the potentially vampire gas station, gotcha gotcha gotcha.
Keith: Yeah. I guess it’s not a vampire. Poof! You’re here!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): [shouts] Holy shit!
Janine (as gas-station guy): What the heck..?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Fuck! God [slams fist] damn it!
Ali: [snorts]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): He’s here— how—! It worked?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, I know he’s here— yeah of course it worked! But he’s not a vampire! Fuck!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Isn’t that good news?
Janine (as gas-station guy): What am I doing here?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No! I mean— yeah, it’s good news. Sorry, hold on.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Sorry man, just one sec. But like it’s fine.
Janine (as gas-station guy): Okay.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Like, that he’s not a vampire, that like solves one of the problems, right?
Keith (as Nathaniel): It solves, but I had— I had it all figured out I thought! I never in a million years— I didn’t think that Joey was a vampire at all, and now he is a vampire—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): But you figured it out—
Keith (as Nathaniel): But this is I thought who was like, the main vampire!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Hey man, you’re sure you’re not a vampire, right?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, are you a vampire?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): You have to tell us if you’re a vampire.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You have to tell us if you’re a vampire.
Janine (as gas-station guy): I mean… for Halloween..? Like—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Is that a joke? Are you joking around? Are you a vampire, yes or no? I asked you a question!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Did you see him on a—
Janine (as gas-station guy): Is— [raising voice, panicked] it’s an easy Halloween costume, I’m not a vampire!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay. Fuck!
Janine (as gas-station guy): Geez.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I mean he’s standing in the sun, like.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Sorry we teleported you, fucking shit!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah, my bad, we’ll drive you back.
Janine (as gas-station guy): You did what?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Do you know any vampires? Do you know Ms. Cunningham?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah, do you know any vampires?
Janine (as gas-station guy): I don’t know, what if I do?
Keith (as Nathaniel): You don’t know? Do you know Ms. Cunningham?
Janine (as gas-station guy): Huh?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Fuck!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Fuck.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Shit.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Do you know— do you know Thomas Genie? Is he a vampire?
Janine (as gas-station guy): I don’t— I don’t… I… are these your friends? I don’t know—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): This guy doesn’t know shit.
Keith (as Nathaniel): This guy doesn’t know shit.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Do you know Joey fucking, what’s his fuck?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Trevino?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Trevino?
Janine (as gas-station guy): Oh yeah, that guy’s a vampire.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): So you knew about that one!
Janine (as gas-station guy): I forgot about— I haven’t seen him in a few years.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Do you know any other vampires? Rack your brain!
Janine (as gas-station guy): Uhhhh… 
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Are you high right now?
Janine (as gas-station guy): No! You are.
Keith: [laughs]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): That.
Keith (as Nathaniel): What? Are you?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Is besides the point. It’s fine. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay.
Janine (as gas-station guy): Can you drive me back?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yes. Sorry. I was just about to break the news that I don’t know how to do the reverse spell.
Sylvi: I’m flipping through the book.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah, there’s not one— I don’t see—
Janine (as gas-station guy): We’re still in the city, right? We’re not like—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Oh yeah no, we’re still in the city limits, yeah.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah.
Janine (as gas-station guy): Okay. I thought this was Germany for a second.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Why would you think that?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Why would you think that?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): We’re both speaking English.
Keith (as Nathaniel): And you can see the street— you can see that it says Pine Street.
Janine (as gas-station guy): Trees— there a lot of trees in Germany. Like a forest.
Keith (as Nathaniel): These are the pines that are on Pine Street.
Janine (as gas-station guy): I don’t know.
Ali: [wheezes]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Are you sure this guy’s not a vampire?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’m like, I’m eighty five percent sure.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Maybe he’s so strong that—
Sylvi: Oh no, go ahead.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Maybe he’s so strong that he can handle the sun.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I… I don’t know, maybe.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t really know how they work. I’ll give you a ride back.
Janine (as gas-station guy): Thank you.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Back seat.
Janine (as gas-station guy): Mmmhm.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Alright, front seat.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Go by the Wendy’s Drive Thru— what?!
Keith (as Nathaniel): [laughs] Sorry! Sorry, Jenny. Back seat.
Janine (as gas-station guy): [chuckles] Sick. Thanks.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You fucked it on the Cunningham thing, so. Back seat.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Wow!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yep.
Janine (as gas-station guy): Can we stop at Dunkin?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay, fine. We’ll stop at—
Janine (as gas-station guy): Hell yeah.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I skipped work for this. I could’ve gotten paid.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You saw someone teleport! Take it easy!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah, now I— you’ve got a point.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Alright.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Alright.
Sylvi: I think that— I think that’s gotta be it.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvi: Hey, magic is real and we can do it.
Ali: Yeah!
Keith: Magic is real and we can do it.
Ali: [giggles] [clears throat]
Janine: Cool.
Sylvi: [chuckles] Janine, I do think it’s your turn now.
Janine’s Final Scene [2:33:18]
Janine: Yeah! Um. Maddie, how often do you go into the walk-in freezer?
Ali: [laughs] 
Janine: Is it a thing that happens like in a somewhat predictable time everyday, maybe? Or like, or no?
Ali: Well I do try to avoid it. I’m afraid to go there. But maybe it’s a thing— oh I probably, as a PM key holder, a thing that I probably have to do, is when the store closes and like, each of the departments is trying to leave or whatever, I probably have to check that they did their closing duties or whatever? So I probably go in there once a night. Maybe there’s—
Janine: Okay.
Ali: Maybe the store’s about to close in like five minutes, or just closed five minutes ago. And then the stockist— [wheezes] the freezer, the meat-department guy is like,
Ali (as meat-department guy): Can you check my work so I can go home?
Janine: Eddy is in the freezer when you check it. He is alive, I should say that really quickly.
Ali: [cackles, snorts]
Keith: What is he— a vampire!
Janine: No. He is in there, he’s got— he’s like kneeling, and he’s very cold cause he’s probably been there for like a little bit, waiting for you, but he’s wearing his coat. He has— there’s a bouquet of flowers on the fl— on the ground next to him, and he’s holding an acoustic guitar.
Sylvi: Holy fuck.
Janine (as Eddy): Maddie I gotta talk to you.
Ali (as Maddie): [exasperated] What is this?
Janine (as Eddy): I wrote you something.
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Ali (as Maddie): Oh my god.
Janine: He starts to strum, he knows like five chords. He’s not bad.
Keith: That’s enough.
Ali (as Maddie): I just wanna say up front, that I don’t want to hear this.
Janine: Keeps strumming.
Ali (as Maddie): Great.
Janine (as Eddy): [clears voice]
Ali (as Maddie): John’s waiting, you know. I have to go tell him that he can go home.
Janine (as Eddy): In the chill of this freezer where frost paints the air,
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs]
Janine (as Eddy): I strum my old guitar, lost memories we share.
Ten winters have passed since our love turned to ice,
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine (as Eddy): And now fate’s cruel twist brings us face to face.
Ali: [snorts]
Janine (as Eddy): Her watch, a silent witness to our broken past.
Ticking away the moments, like grains of frozen sand.
I stumble upon it, tucked in a dusty drawer—
Ali: [wheezing, squealing]
Keith: [guitar strumming begins]
Janine (as Eddy): A relic of promise is shattered.
A glimpse of what was before.
Ali: [snorts, wheezes, laughs]
Sylvi: [shouts] Oh my god!
Janine (as Eddy): Lottery dreams, and love’s lost schemes,
In this frost-kissed aisle, our destinies entwine.
I’ll return her watch, but can I thaw her heart?
Will she listen to my plea as the freezer hums its rhyme?
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine (as Eddy): I remember her eyes, like winter skies at dusk.
The text that tore us apart, a blizzard of mistrust.
Now she stands before me, clutching her ticket tight.
Her breath visible in the cold, as if love could ignite.
I’ll slip the watch onto her gloved hand, a silent plea.
Remember the warmth we shared, the fire we used to be.
Ali: [snorts, wheezes]
Janine (as Eddy): But there’s more, a secret I harbour, a desperate plea.
Help me find redemption. Thaw my frozen soul free.
Lottery dreams and love’s lost schemes
In this frost-kissed aisle, our destinies entwine.
I’ll return her watch, but can I thaw her heart?
Will she listen to my plea as the freezer hums its rhyme?
The fluorescent lights flicker—we’re almost done
Casting shadows on the floor.
As I strum these frozen echoes, my heart yearning for more,
She glances at the watch, her eyes a stormy gray.
“What do you want from me?” she whispers, her voice frayed.
Ali (as Maddie): I didn’t say that!
Janine (as Eddy): Lottery dreams, and love-lost schemes—shhh, I’m almost done.
In this frost-kissed aisle, our destinies entwine.
I’ll return her watch, but can I thaw her heart?
Will she listen to my plea as the freezer hums its rhyme?
Alright, can you—
Janine: And then he likes, picks up the bouquet off the ground, off the freezer, and it’s like a little bit stuck, so he has to rip the flowers a bit, and holds it out.
[guitar strumming stops]
Janine (as Eddy): Reach inside. Reach inside the bouquet.
Ali (as Maddie): That wasn’t even a song.
Janine (as Eddy): It was— it’s the best I got, I didn’t have a lot of time. Reach inside the bouquet, okay?
Ali (as Maddie): [sighs]
Ali: Should I roll to see whether I do this? [chuckles] I reach inside.
Janine: There will be a roll coming, let me tell you.
Ali: [laughs] I reach inside.
Janine: Your watch is inside the flower bouquet.
Ali (as Maddie): Wow. Thank you.
Janine (as Eddy): Maddie I know. I know we have a real— we have a complicated history, you know? And I think you have— we got our ups and downs, but I think you’ve handled it really well, us working in the same store, and everything. And you know, I… I wanted to let you know, like no hard feelings, um. And like actually,
Ali: [wheezing, and holding back laughter]
Janine (as Eddy): I wanted to ask you a favour. Cause like, I maybe didn’t actually tell my parents that we broke up when we did?
Ali: [wheezing]
Janine (as Eddy): I can bare— like,
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Janine (as Eddy): This thing? And they were like, oh you should invite Maddie, and I keep telling them like, oh, she’s really busy with medical school.
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Ali: Wh—
Janine (as Eddy): But they’re coming to town, so like.
Ali (as Maddie): I don’t go to medical school.
Janine (as Eddy): They don’t know, they’ve never gone. So can you just like, for the weekend—
Ali (as Maddie): The weekend?!
Keith: [laughs out loud]
Janine (as Eddy): Just for the weekend, you know. 
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Strums the guitar a little more.
Keith: [strums guitar]
Janine (as Eddy): Help me find my redemption, thaw my frozen soul free.
In this walk-in freezer, where love’s echoes still breathe.
Sylvi: That’s gonna help with this, now.
Ali: [laughs] I just— I wanna give a—
Janine: And now we can roll.
Ali: I wanna give a shout-out to magpiebatguy who says, Maddie has attained a rational reason to fear the walk-in freezer.
Janine: [laughs] True.
Ali: [snorts] So you want me—this is out of character—you want me, [wheezes] to not only spend an entire weekend with you and your parents, lying about the fact that we’ve been together for ten years, but, I also [laughs] have to lie to them about being [wheezing, can’t finish the sentence], like a registered nurse, I guess? Or still going to be?
Janine: In med school, you know.
Ali: This is going to be a tough roll.
Janine: I should be clear, also, this roll— I don’t think this is a roll for Maddie agrees or Maddie disagrees? I think that is a hundred percent your call. I think the success of the roll is purely how people leave this freezer. Like what state people leave the freezer in, you know? If you wanted to play along, that’s fine, if you don’t wanna, also fine.
Ali: [chuckles] I think you’re still rolling a PC here though.
Janine: Yes. Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: What are the conditions for a Goth roll again? Is it just purely magic stuff?
Sylvi: No— I mean no, it’s creative— you know?
Janine: Yeah. I would like to, because of the song, roll Goth.
Ali: Wow.
Sylvi: I think that is exactly what you should be rolling, honestly.
Ali: If you write a sad poem, roll +Goth. You literally did that.
Janine: Hell. Yeah.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Alright.
Ali: Plus you can—
Janine: Plus one—
Ali: You can break your whatever here. You’re the only one with three tokens.
Sylvi: Oh yeah, you can break the slate— is that what it’s called?
Ali: Yeah. Once per game, when you do something nobody expects, [laughs] and you absolutely did here.
Janine: [laughs] My guitar lessons are secret.
Ali: Something that reflects what you think you are, which is a cool guy playing a guitar, whether anybody believes it or not, you can spend three tokens to add a new trait. There’s no new elements for you to choose from, make something up. The new trait doesn’t need to be cute or clever, don’t stress about it or hold up the game while thinking of the perfect phrase. Just pick something that describes more or less what you’re going for. Say what kind of action applies to you if it’s not obvious. If it should include the thing you’re trying to do, it can overlap with one of your rotation traits. But it shouldn’t match any of them exactly. The stat of your new trait is +2. Roll with it to do the thing. Regardless of the outcome, you keep the new trait, and use it whenever it applies.
Sylvi: It’s a +2 as well.
Janine: Wow. Wow, wow.
Ali: All of your reputation traits reset to zero.
Janine: I have to do this.
Ali: Nobody knows what to expect of you.
Sylvi: Wow.
Janine: Yeah, I’m going to spend my three.
Ali: Please!
Janine: Fuck, what’s my new trait going to be?
Sylvi: Swaggy.
Ali: [wheezing] It’s not swaggy…
Sylvi: It’s not swaggy? I don’t know!
Ali: [laughs] I guess right now, you’re a one Goth and a one Jock.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: [chuckles] hemsandhaws says “Pick-up artist”.
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Janine: [chuckles]
Sylvi: Oh my new trait, “Sigma male”.
Janine: I think “Rizzed-up”, past-tense? How do I make— rizzer?
Sylvi: Uhhh.
Ali: [laughs] I think you’re looking for “charismatic”. [laughs, snorts]
Keith: I think— no, “rizzed” is right. That’s how you— that’s how you use that.
Janine: I think this is specifically rizz. I don’t think this is charisma.
Ali: Uhh, luscart in the chat says, “The Rizzler”? [laughs]
Sylvi: Oh my god. That’s the aforementioned Guild Wars II friend I mentioned earlier. Hell yeah.
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: Okay. I’m just calling this stat “rizz”, cause it doesn’t matter, cause it’s a one-shot game.
Ali: Mhm, mhm. And then you roll—
Janine: I’m gonna roll my two Rizz.
Ali: Yeah! 2D6 plus two. [laughs]
Janine: An eleven.
Keith: [a single guitar note twanging]
Sylvi: Yeah man. You got rizzed up.
Ali: Okay. Okay. Okay, okay, okay okay okay. Okay. Um, when you act against another PC, decide what happens, unless the target gives you a token to change the result to a 7 to 9. You succeed, but the target chooses a complication. Your target decides what happens, unless you give them a token or change the result to a 7 to 9. Well I still have a token to make that a mixed success.
Janine: [chuckles]
Ali (as Maddie): Fine, but my boyfriend’s coming.
Janine (as Eddy): Aw m— your boyfriend?
Ali (as Maddie): Yeah.
Janine (as Eddy): Mmm— who is he?
Ali (as Maddie): You’re gonna find out this weekend, aren’t you?
Janine (as Eddy): Oh, you don’t have a boyfriend, okay. It’s fine.
Keith: It’s Joey.
Ali: [wheezes] 
Ali (as Maddie): I think that if you’ve ever spoken to me, you’d know I had a boyfriend. If you followed my Instagram, you’d know I’d had a boyfriend. If you’d followed my business Facebook, you know I have a boyfriend. But you don't do any of those things, because you don’t care about me.
Janine (as Eddy): Because I’m not a stalker, Maddie! You want me to be a stalker? Man, the internet’s right.
Sylvi: Oh, he did get the Sigma trait.
Ali: [howls with laughter]
Keith: [laughs]
Janine (as Eddy): Listen, we can— we can sort this all out—
Keith: You know, nice guys like Eddy, they just finish last.
Janine (as Eddy): I can just say your guy— open relationship. My parents are modern, they don’t care.
Ali (as Maddie): Wonderful. Well give me the details, and I’ll see you there.
Janine (as Eddy): You can keep the flowers.
Sylvi: Would be great when Eddy meets the boyfriend.
Ali: [chuckles]
Janine: [chuckles] I think it would help him.
Sylvi: I think so too!
Ali: [snorts]
Janine: It would be a beneficial relationship in his life.
Keith: I don’t know, this person’s a thief.
Ali: Oh my god. [wheezes]
Keith: This person is a known thief.
Sylvi: Yeah, maybe it was someone else’s boyfriend before it was hers.
Ali: Yeah, maybe.
Janine: Woah. Damn.
Ali: That sounds like scene. [laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah, that sounds like scene. That was incredible. That was, like.
Ali: Janine, that was incredible. That was—
Keith: It was great.
Ali: Astonishing.
Janine: Okay, I’m not gonna—
Sylvi: And Keith, shout out to the guitar.
Keith: Thanks.
Janine: I’m not gonna take credit a hundred percent. Part of that was me searching Bing.
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: [laughs]
Janine: And part of that was taking what Bing gave me, and going, oooookay.
Ali: Wait—! [laughing] Was it just, “what’s a word that rhymes with X?”
Janine: There was— it was like, how do you say you love someone in a freezer, or some shit, like.
Ali: Wow!
Keith: [laughs]
Ali: Okay!
Sylvi: To be clear, not an AI poem.
Janine: No. Partially, it was collaborative, because I’m on a time limit, you know?
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Mhm. Mhm. Well, to me you went above and beyond. That was fantastic. [laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah! 
Ali: And now, for our final scene of the night. Nathaniel Munth.
Keith’s Final Scene [2:47:50]
Keith: Uhh, that’s true. I… you know I gotta— I gotta— I think I gotta go with the Ms. Cunningham stuff. I feel like that’s been my main thing. I have this car, who knows what’s going to happen with that. It doesn’t feel like a finale thing. 
Sylvi: Just feels like you have it now.
Keith: It just feels like I have it. If it was sellable, I could sell it, but it doesn’t seem sellable. 
Ali: Well maybe Joey was just a bad business person.
Sylvi: Maybe he sells as a vampire, and they’re probably only up at night trying to do it.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, that’s a bad time to sell a car. It’s really tough to sell a car at 2am.
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: [wheezes] But I do— I do think I’ve gotta do the Cunningham thing.
Sylvi: Hell yeah.
Keith: God, I can’t believe that I chose that one out of four thing, and we got two ones in a row.
Ali: [chuckles]
Sylvi: Yeah. I—
Keith: A four, a one, and a one. Wild.
Sylvi: We also— for this one, we could just say “yeah”.
Keith: Um. 
Sylvi: Or we could turn it to a coin flip if it has to be better.
Keith: No, we already— I made the rules, and we gotta play by the rules. But, I am— I don’t want this to end like, I don’t wanna make this a Fiasco ending? 
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: By—
Sylvi: If this gets terrible for us?
Keith: If this was Fiasco, the thing that I would be doing at the end, is like, making a big show of this? And being like, everybody in the store, come out to the parking lot, I can do magic! And Mrs Cunningham is a vampire, and I can prove it to you! And I [wheezes] do the summoning spell in front of everybody. That’s what I would do—
Janine: To meet a fate worse than death. That’s how Fiasco ends.
Keith: [laughs] But then I would have to suffer the consequences of this. 
Janine: Mhm.
Keith: Of these actions.
Ali: Mmm.
Keith: Which would be bad, because it’s Fiasco.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: So in the spirit of another— of this game, I’m instead going to ask someone to be Ms. Cunningham.
Sylvi: I figured I would be involved in the scene as Jenny is some way..?
Keith: Yeah, Jenny can be in the scene for sure.
Ali: Um, yeah I’d be happy to, unless Janine is—
Janine: I need a little break.
Ali: Sure. [chuckles]
Sylvi: You did just do a whole performance.
Ali: Fair.
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: Janine, I hope I didn’t step on your thing with the guitar, I thought that it would be—
Janine: No, you did perfect. You did perfectly.
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith: Okay.
Janine: I could not have asked for better, unless I myself was able to sing, which I am not.
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: [laughs]
Janine: So.
Keith: I just— it did just felt like— it just felt right. I looked over, I saw the guitar, I was like, I can just do this right now.
Janine: Yeah. It was perfect.
Keith: Okay, great.
Janine: No notes.
Keith: I wanna ring the little library bell? Go bing bing bing bing!
Ali (as Cunningham): Oh, hello! Looking for a book?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Ms. Cunningham, no, I’m looking for you, actually.
Ali (as Cunningham): How can I help you, dear?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t think there’s anything that you can do to help me.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Going from zero to hundred, huh.
Ali (as Cunningham): Oh!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh sorry, okay, should I modulate?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No no no no no no no no, you’re fine— I mean, you’ve inv— we’ve inv— you can’t turn back now. Just keep rolling, bro.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh, okay. I don’t think there’s anything you can do to help me.
Ali (as Cunningham): Is… something amiss?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Something is very amiss.
Ali (as Cunningham): Ohh…
Keith (as Nathaniel): Demonically amiss!
Ali (as Cunningham): [gasps] Demonically amiss, no!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Oh my god, you can tell from the way that she said that that she’s a vampire, right?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I mean, it was a little sinister, I guess.
Ali (as Cunningham): [chuckles]
Keith (as Nathaniel): It was— [fake gasps] demonically amiss, well I never!
Ali (as Cunningham): Well, you know about the history of this town, of course?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I don’t…
Ali (as Cunningham): [sighs] Well you can’t go messing around about demon business.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Why not?
Ali (as Cunningham): Surely everybody knows.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Well then why do you guys got demon books here?
Ali (as Cunningham): Well, because you have to be educated.
Keith (as Nathaniel): And educated we have become, on exactly how to deal with your kind!
Ali (as Cunningham): Librarians?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No! I’ll give you a clue! Turns into a bat! Another clue, sucking out blood! Another clue! Dracula!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): We just kinda met a guy who was one of them.
Ali (as Cunningham): I’m…
Keith (as Nathaniel): I didn’t say they would be hard clues!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeah no, great point.
Ali (as Cunningham): Did you need me for something, sweetheart?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Why don’t we step outside?
Ali (as Cunningham): [chuckles] But I’m working, dearie.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’m sure that with your many years of service, they’ll let you take just a minute to step out and get some fresh air?
Ali (as Cunningham): Oh, but I get off in about an hour, what a waste that would be! I have some organizing to do you know, I have to put these books back. It’s so strange that I’m the only one who runs this library.
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s, I mean it’s a strange library. It’s in— it’s in between paper plates and cereal.
Ali (as Cunningham): Well, yes. It’s to encourage more reading.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Hey, what do you know—! What do you know about my lottery ticket, by the way?!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): What? The fu— what the fuck, dude? What?
Ali: [laughs]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I talked to Denise, and Denise said that you guys were out drinking—
Ali (as Cunningham): [chuckles] Oh yes.
Keith (as Nathaniel): And that all of a sudden, she ended up with a lottery ticket!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Was this whole thing about your lottery ticket?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, it wasn’t!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I didn’t find out until after, way after!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay, okay.
Ali (as Cunningham): Oh, it was the strangest thing! We sat down at Taco Cabal.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Cabal!
Ali (as Cunningham): It was—
Ali: [wheezes]
Ali (as Cunningham): It was their lunch special, it started right at 2.30,
Keith (as Nathaniel): Blood sausage.
Ali (as Cunningham): But we got there a little bit late. So we get up there at 2.45… and we sat on the table, and wouldn’t you know it, Denise pulls out the chair, and a lottery ticket was sitting there! It was the luckiest thing, I couldn’t— we were ecstatic! 
Keith (as Nathaniel): That was my lottery ticket. And I didn’t go to eat at Taco Cabal!
Ali (as Cunningham): [chuckles] Well, you must have at some point, sweetheart. Or perhaps it was someone else’s?
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, I must’ve! What?
Ali (as Cunningham): There were a lot of lottery tickets in this town. It was the three strawberries, right?
Keith (as Nathaniel): It isn’t saying that— cause I know someone else who also said there’s a lot of lottery tickets in this town, that’s just not true! People aren’t losing thousand dollar lottery tickets every day.
Ali (as Cunningham): Oh, but they are buying them by the truckload, aren’t they?
Keith (as Nathaniel): There’s only like, four hundred people in this town.
Ali (as Cunningham): [chuckles] Sweetheart…
Keith (as Nathaniel): There isn’t even a truckload of people.
Ali (as Cunningham): You need to cross a bridge more often.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): That is a good point, we do get a lot of tourists coming through here you know, just like gas stops and stuff.
Keith (as Nathaniel): But then— but then— but those people wouldn’t be buying lottery tickets because they’re leaving the state.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Sometimes they’re coming in.
Ali (as Cunningham): They’re gambling!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Like, they’re out there dude.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I know what we can do. We can discuss this further outside. That’s right, I have two things, and I’m merging them!
Ali (as Cunningham): [chuckles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Whoa. You really gotta stay on your toes around this one, he’s crafty.
Ali (as Cunningham): I’m sorry, how can I help you? I… 
Keith (as Nathaniel): What do you think, of this!
Keith: And I put a garlic in her face.
Ali: [laughs] Have we determined if she is or isn’t a vampire?
Sylvi: We have not done that yet.
Keith: No, we have not.
Janine: Rolling a D4 on this one?
Ali: I suppose those are the rules of the game as we have made them. [wheezes]
Keith: [laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah, I guess.
Keith: FOUR!!!
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: YES!! YES!!!!
Sylvi: Fuck. Fuck.
Janine: Liar. Liar!
Sylvi: Ali rolled the four. Ali rolled a four!
Keith: OH NO!!!
Janine: Ali’s not the roller!
Ali: Wait, why wouldn’t I be rolling?
Janine: Cause Keith always— Keith was rolling.
Keith: No actually, it was Jenny who rolled the last time.
Janine: Liar, liar liar liar!
Sylvi: I did roll the last two, so we have established that it could be anybody.
Janine: Oh.
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith: Okay.
Janine: Well. Well then wait, then— then neither of these is valid. 
Ali: How is mine not valid?
Keith: We should do a heads or tails to decide whether it’s a one or a four.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: Or, we must accept that this is a— this is a quantum situation, we will never know if Ms. Cunningham is a vampire or not.
Sylvi: Or she’s a dampire, she’s half-vampire—
Ali: [laughs] I feel like my four stands! It’s before yours!
Sylvi: I would agree with the prior four.
Ali: I’m the person who—
Janine: Mmm… I feel like we’re juicing the results to what we want at that point.
Sylvi: But hey, it’s not like we didn’t roll it! Like—
Janine: If it was reversed, we would be arguing for four still!
Keith: Wait! No— and I— I hate to be devil’s advocate because of the implication here of what with the devil.
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: But, on my screen, the one is first. They really came at the same—
Ali: Oh really?
Keith: If it’s four for all of you, and one for me,
Sylvi: Wow.
Keith: They really came in at the same time!
Ali: Twitch says four, yeah. [laughs]
Keith: That’s so funny. Because this whole time I was like, I can’t believe anybody’s even arguing for four, it came in after the one.
Sylvi: No, it came in first for me.
Janine: I think—
Keith: Wow.
Janine: Yeah I wonder if— is this, is she the vampire who’s immune to certain things? Is she like the uber vampire.
Sylvi: She’s the head vampire!
Janine: Like the sun is fine,
Ali: Mmm.
Janine: But there’s some other like, thing.
Keith: Alright, I think if we decide now, I don’t dis— I’m not against that, Janine, obviously.
Janine: We could also just roll again. It would be a clean roll—
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: I would love to roll with the, you know, super vampire, and just roll with that. Or, flip a coin heads or tails, to pick one of these two rolls. 
Janine: Well at that point it’s just heads, she’s not a vampire, tails, she is.
Sylvi: Yeah, let’s roll with super vampire, we have a more interesting option now.
Keith: Yeah, alright.
Ali: I feel like she— she’s a vampire, I rolled the truth of her self. But you rolled the like—
Sylvi: Garlic reaction.
Janine: Perception?
Ali: Yeah, the perception test, the read the room, the, yeah. And you failed at it, Keith.
Keith (as Nathaniel): What do you think of THIS!!!
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: And it’s the garlic back in her face.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Oh dude, is that the Joey garlic?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’m not gonna— I’m not gonna get new garlic, it’s the same garlic.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): No, I’m just saying like, cool.
Ali: [laughs] I think she catches it, but it sort of awkwardly hits her hand, but it hits the side of her hand, so it like sort of bounces against her chest, and then she’s able to do the like, sort of like, oh I’m catching it as it’s following.
Sylvi: Oh I thought you were going to say she starts hackey-sacking it.
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: [laughs]
Ali: She can’t let anybody know that she’s a vampire, and she has super speed and super strength, so she’s doing this very awkwardly.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I couldn’t tell— did that hit her? I couldn’t tell.
Ali (as Cunningham): Dearie.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): You definitely bonked her a little bit, dude.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Just a little there, right?
Sylvi (as Jennifer): But like yeah, but it made contact.
Keith (as Nathaniel): But vampires can touch garlic a little bit.
Ali (as Cunningham): Honey, did you drop this garlic? You can’t be throwing produce around the place like this.
Ali: And she’s holding it in her other hand.
Keith (as Nathaniel): I wasn’t throwing it, I was confronting you!
Ali (as Cunningham): There’s nothing. There’s no need for aggression.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Of course there’s need— you’re a vampire! You killed the night manager!
Ali (as Cunningham): [laughs]
Keith (as Nathaniel): You stole a thousand dollars from me or something, I don’t know why.
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I haven’t quite figured that out.
Sylvi: My like eyes have been sort of narrowing, with each consecutive word leaving Nate’s mouth.
Janine: [chuckles]
Ali (as Cunningham): You know I— [clear throats] I wouldn’t speak that confidently about things that you don’t know, sweetheart. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): Well—
Ali (as Cunningham): And that death was a very long time before you. It’s a very sensitive subject.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Well what do you think, of THIS!!!
Keith: And I hold a cross up. [laughs]
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: Oh man.
Ali: And wha— [continues laughing]
Keith: [continues laughing]
Ali: [wheezing] Keith!
Sylvi: Homer Simpson-ass character.
Ali: Why is Keith laughing so hard at his own joke? [laughs]
Keith: [laughs]
Janine: [chuckles]
Sylvi: You know what, it’s a good joke.
Keith: Yeah, it’s funny. I— I don’t laugh at my own jokes. I laugh when other people laugh at my own jokes.
Ali: Mmm, then it’s funny, you were right. What— okay, what is the desired outcome for you for this scene?
Keith: For me or for Nathaniel?
Ali: I guess both. You know, what do you want/think you should be rolling for here?
Keith: Well I guess— Nathaniel definitely wants to elicit some kind of reaction that will prove if not to the crowd, but to himself, that this is indeed a vampire, even if I can’t kill her with the sun or with garlic or whatever, like I could with Joey.
Ali: Mhm. I do have to say unfortunately you have already failed your [laughs] vampire perception check.
Keith: Well! This is complication, because we know she’s a super vampire.
Ali: Sure. Sure sure sure sure sure.
Sylvi: We know.
Ali: Then, does the reaction to the cross want to be your—?
Keith: I sort of— I just sort of did it, so that you can sort of side-step it again.
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: Cause I didn’t roll anything there, so definitely needs change.
Ali: Okay.
Sylvi: Yeah, that was just a bit.
Keith: This was just a bit.
Ali (as Cunningham): Oh, Easter’s coming up soon, did we already get the decorations in? It’s so lovely.
Keith (as Nathaniel): No, it’s July.
Ali (as Cunningham): Then what are you doing with that cross?
Keith (as Nathaniel): Why didn’t you know that? That’s weird, right? Jenny.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): It’s a little weird, like if you’d been outside you’d know. You know, in the sunlight.
Ali (as Cunningham): I’m a very old woman. 
Sylvi (as Jennifer): How old?
Ali (as Cunningham): Time gets away from me.
Keith (as Nathaniel): You work at the library.
Ali (as Cunningham): And?
Keith (as Nathaniel): What, this means you’re not so old that you’d not be working at the library.
Ali (as Cunningham): Well yes, but I can be forgetful. You’ll realize that when you come to be my age.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Oh, she’s good.
Janine: Ali, I— I just wanna—
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: I found a random object generator, and asked it to give me three objects to replace the three objects that we know vampires usually— I’m just gonna DM these to you.
Ali: Okay! [wheezes]
Janine: It’s just a little secret, just three perfectly random objects—
Ali: What is this determining?
Keith: Instead of—
Janine: Just some actual weaknesses, in case they come up for some reason.
Ali: Actual weaknesses, okay.
Janine: Keep it a secret.
Keith: And so instead of stakes, crosses, and garlic— or sunlight, crosses and garlic,
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: Three new things.
Ali: Mhm.
Janine: Uh huh. Three new— yeah. Yep.
Ali (as Cunningham): What was this about going outside?
Keith (as Nathaniel): I just wanted you to step out into the sun.
Ali (as Cunningham): [sighs] Well, if I’m forgetting the days that I’ve been cooped up so much, I suppose that I could go for a walk with you two. Sure.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Okay. Let’s go.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): [low voice] Dude, I’m nervous about this. Why isn’t she stressed out about the sun?
Keith (as Nathaniel): [whispering] I don’t know.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): It’s kinda weird, right?
Keith (as Nathaniel): She’s definitely a vampire.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I mean like probably, yeah. But the garlic…
Keith: I’m fuckin— I wanna— I want so bad for Nathaniel to have a reason to be able to crack this meta-code that Janine has invented.
Ali: [laughs]
Keith: And I have a strong suspicion, just based on almost nothing, that it’s something that has come up today that she’s allergic to.
Janine: It can’t be, I used a random object generator.
Keith: Yeah, random objects sometimes return— I mean, it’s like a lottery.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: Nathaniel’s already won the lottery once.
Sylvi: Yeah, well. In a way.
Ali: [hearty laughter]
Keith: And so, [whispering] I just feel like it’s like, money or beef jerky or something.
Sylvi: I don’t think the random— are you saying that out of character? Wait—
Ali: [chuckles]
Janine: [laughs]
Keith: Yeah, yeah yeah yeah, but whispering because of the tone.
Sylvi: Okay, I’ll return—
Keith: Janine, is it money or beef jerky?
Janine: No.
Keith: Fuck.
Janine: I guess it I will tell you? But no.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvi: Is it umbrellas?
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: You can’t— we can’t just do—
Sylvi: I wanted to try, I wanted to like—
Janine: It’s not umbrellas.
Sylvi: I wanted to be involved, okay.
Keith: Is it something that would be surprising, based on where she works?
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Maybe? I don’t— that’s a whole discussion.
Sylvi: Is it bigger than a bread box?
Janine: There’s three things!
Keith: Okay.
Sylvi: Okay.
Ali: Two of them are.
Keith: Okay.
Janine: Ali!
Ali: [laughs] You each get one more guesses.
Keith: Okay. Is it dairy?
Ali: No.
Keith: Fuck!
Sylvi: Is it edible?
Ali: No.
Keith: Fuck!
S Then I don’t know— is it Goku on a car?
Ali: [chuckles] Ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding!
Janine: I don’t think randomobjects.com had that.
Keith: Okay. I, um, I wanna roll for… fuck! I don’t have anything.
Ali: [snorts, laughs] This is gaming sometimes, this is gaming. What— okay.
Sylvi: You can just pick her up again.
Ali: [spit takes]
Keith: She’s going out in the sun on her own!
Ali: Okay yeah, she’s a super vampire. But you still— you still want your challenge of the scene to be whether or not you find out that she’s a vampire?
Keith: No. I don’t know.
Ali: [chuckles]
Sylvi: I’m like trying to figure out a way to power game this for you bro.
Keith: I just don’t have an objective anymore. There’s no— there’s nothing I can— there’s no… it— it feels like with the super vampire option, I have lost the ability to make a roll.
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: Well, that—
Ali: [chuckles] Okay. Then, it still— then like the super vampire thing shouldn’t matter, right? And it should be, what you set out, what the scene would be? And that was—
Keith: But it was a vampire. I thought we set that up.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: Can I give Keith my token so he’s able to do the—
Keith: I’ve got two tokens!
Sylvi: Yeah you need three for the breaking the slate thing.
Keith: Ohhh, you need three tokens?
Sylvi: That was what I was going to suggest. And then you could do your— yeah, your trait could be like, something related to vampires or whatever.
Keith: Ohhh. Wow.
Sylvi: Or just like, you’re a super detective or something, I don’t know. But I don’t know if I can just like, give you a token for nothing, but—
Keith: Yeah, I don’t think that you can.
Ali: I feel like we can disregard the super vampire thing if to like, set out to follow through the rules of the scene? And see if you succeed on that. Cause it isn’t fair that that one is technically a failure when it’s not actually a failure.
Janine: Mhm.
Sylvi: I think that’s true.
Keith: Yeah. I don’t know, I feel— I feel guilty about inventing rules and then discarding them.
Ali: [wheezes] Okay.
Keith: I don’t wanna— so I don’t wanna do that.
Sylvi: Personally, I’m like fuck ‘em.
Janine: I mean one of these items is something that they could theoretically run into.
Sylvi: The juice box.
Ali: [snorts]
Keith: The juice… apple juice, smaller than a bread box.
Janine: I mean, the roll could be like, well—
Keith: Cause it can’t— I have to like, Nathaniel has to want it— oh! Can we cast a, you know in video games you can like, use a spell to find the weakness of something?
Ali: Mhm?
Janine: I’m sure you can Detect Weakness.
Keith: I wanted to— I want to cast— Jenny will you help me detect weakness?
Sylvi: Yeah, I’ll help you use a battle scope on this lady.
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith: Yeaaah, nice.
Sylvi: Let’s see here, Max HP—
Keith: This is Goth, this is a Goth roll— we’re outside, so I don’t know if, maybe she’s a little bit weak, and that’s what lets us do this? Because she’s in the sun, even if she’s not super weak in the sun, but we’re going to use Detect Weakness, and I’m going to roll a 2D6 flat. No plus or minus on that.
Ali: Are you sure you don’t wanna do the, break the— take Sylvi’s token, break the thingy?
Keith: Uhh, I would love to do that, but I don’t know— I don’t have— there’s no give token thing.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Well yeah.
Sylvi: Worth mentioning we can just spend tokens to change the result of this roll too.
Ali: Oh, sure sure sure.
Keith: Yeah, that’s sort of what I was thinking.
Ali: Okay.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: Spend token to change the outcome, spend one token to raise the dice roll— it doesn’t say you can’t use two? So that’s something to keep in mind?
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: Oh, spend one token to raise it an extra— oh wait, if you’re acting against another PC, you can only change your roll from a 7 to a 9 or 10, give the other player the token instead of returning it to the file— oh! But actually,
Ali: But you’re playing—
Sylvi: You are not— this isn’t against a PC.
Ali: Yeah, this is against an NPC.
Keith: No, but! Ali, you changed—
Ali: Then again it was also against an NPC, we spoke about that at that time, it was against Rudolph.
Keith: Ah, fuck!
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith: Okay. That’s fine. Eleven.
Sylvi: Let’s, fucking go. Let’s fucking go!
Keith: I don’t need— I don’t need anybody recognizing me as a goth!
Sylvi: No.
Keith: I can do this with the power of my muscles!
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith (as Nathaniel): [deep voice] I can feel it! I can feel it happening, it’s working!
Janine: Oh no.
Sylvi: [chuckles]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): My god, the magic’s flowing through him!
Keith (as Nathaniel): The magic is flowing through me! I feel physically stronger than ever!
Ali: [wheezing]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I feel so strong, that I can tell exactly what her weaknesses are!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): You’re growing, what the fuck!
Keith (as Nathaniel): It’s like the weaknesses are appearing in my mind, as if through telepathy!
Janine: Ali do you wanna drop them in the Roll20, or should I link them in the chat?
Ali: [laughs] Um—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Nate, your eyes are glowing!
Ali: I’m gonna save this image and add it to the OBS, and you can link it into the Discord.
Janine: Sounds good, I’m going to put this in liveshows.
Ali: Thanks.
Janine: There we go.
Ali: She—
Sylvi: Oh my god. Oh my fucking god!
Ali: She— [chuckles] looks at you, and her eyes are shining over, and—going to be leaving a backup for people—and her fangs are extending, that you see them.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Bro bro bro bro, bro, bro!
Keith (as Nathaniel): I knew it! I knew she was a vampire! This is horrible!
Janine: [chuckles]
Ali: [wheezes] 
Janine: We should read these out for people who are only listening and not viewing.
Ali: Give me one moment—
Keith (as Nathaniel): Their weaknesses! They are video games! Shovels! And rubber bands!
Ali: [wheezing, snorts]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): There is a copy of Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 2 in the back of Joey’s car.
Keith (as Nathaniel): [laughs] Oh my god!
Janine: [chuckles]
Sylvi: Runs off to go get it.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Uh, what are you doing with your fangs?
Keith: Sorry, that’s out of character. Ali, what are you doing with Ms. Cunningham’s fangs?
Ali: I think she was like, going to fight you, because like, she’s— she’s stubborn now [wheezes].
Keith (as Nathaniel): Go! I’ll hold her off!
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith (as Nathaniel): You don’t stand a chance against me!
Ali: [wheezing continues]
Keith (as Nathaniel): I’ve leveled up! Your weakness is me leveling up!
Janine: Do you think that when we do games like this in Bluff,
Sylvi: Yeah.
Janine: That when Austin goes back and listens to them, it’s like that Community GIF when Troy walks in with the pizzas and everything’s on fire.
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith: [laughs loudly]
Sylvi: A little bit, but like in the best way.
Ali: It could be.
Keith: Maybe, maybe. There’s no way to know.
Ali: It could be.
Janine: In a respectful way, yeah.
Keith: Except asking. Do you feel that? Is this on fire?
Ali: [laughs, snorts]
Sylvi: Jenny comes back from the car, like.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Okay, I found— okay, I found the copy of Budokai 2, and there were some rubber bands on the floor of the car, underneath some of the Wendy’s wrappers.
Keith: Okay, I take them and I just sort of touch— I just press them into her.
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith (as Nathaniel): How do you like that? Is this the same as the sun to you?
Ali: [wheezes] I can’t…
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith (as Nathaniel): Prepare to burn in righteous fire, vampire!
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: Now, we agreed to every step on the way to this, we’re here now.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Get her ass, Nate!
Ali: I think that while Jenny is rummaging through the car, she says,
Ali (as Cunningham): People have gained power in a lot of ways in this city, honey.
Ali: But then, [laughs] when you— when you shove a copy of Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 2 in her face, I guess she bursts into flames?
Sylvi: I’m like firing rubber bands at her off my—
Keith (as Nathaniel): [laughs]
Ali: [wheezes]
Keith (as Nathaniel): We did it!
Sylvi: Do we have like a secret handshake, or like a hi-five we do or something?
Keith: [making handshake sounds] Fwah! Fwah! Fwah fwah fwah! Fwah!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Yeaahhhh!!!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah! Hooah!!
Sylvi: We do the Ginyu pose at the end.
Janine: [chuckles] I was gonna say, this sounds very Ginyu-adjacent.
Ali: [snorts]
Sylvi: Oh no wait, we just do the Fusion Dance!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Fuuuuu—
Sylvi (as Jennifer): —sionnnn!
Keith (as Nathaniel) and Sylvi (as Jennifer): HA!!!
Ali: [wheezes] And that’s game!
Keith: [laughs]
Janine: —the police get involved.
Keith: Wait! Roll for fusion to work. No no no no no.
Sylvi: We’d have to roll the exact same—
Janine: What would that mean if I did? That’s—
Keith: [laughs]
Ali: Yeah, both roll a 1D4. If you get the same exact number, it works. And if you don’t—
Janine: That’s a double— slightest what that is.
Ali: No well, if you don’t, just something funny happens, like you’re like, messed up, like you usually are. And Dragon Ball is like oh, you’re a fat guy instead!
Sylvi: Yeah, ours is probably better than theirs.
Janine: Right.
Sylvi: I rolled a one. I’ve rolled only ones before this.
Ali: Wow.
Keith: I rolled a two.
Sylvi: We fall over.
Keith: Yeah. [chuckles]
Janine: Right.
Sylvi: The magic deflates from Nate, and so we both drip.
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: You gotta pick up that copy of Budakai 2?
Sylvi: I mean hell yeah, that game rules.
Ali: [yawns]
Sylvi: That’s the last shot we get of them, playing Budakai 2 back at one of their apartments.
Keith: Wait, hold on I wanna do this. 
Keith (as Nathaniel): [voice starts deep, and slowly transitions back to normal Keith voice] Oh, it didn’t work! Something’s happening. Oh, come on, nooooo!
Sylvi (as Jennifer): That’s okay man.
Ali: [wheezes]
Janine: [grimace sound]
Sylvi (as Jennifer): I’m sure that’ll happen again next time, I mean if we have to fight a vampire again. Cool.
Keith (as Nathaniel): Yeah, there’s definitely more vampires in this town.
Sylvi (as Jennifer): Not for long!
Keith (as Nathaniel): Hooah! 
Janine: Credits, music.
Keith: Wait wait wait wait.
Sylvi: [humming a tune]
Janine: [chuckles]
Keith: [plays Chain Bastard]
Sylvi: Yeahhh! Oh my god.
[Chain Bastard fades out]
Keith: Sorry, that’s from Hunter x Hunter.
Ali: [chuckles] Sure.
Sylvi: You used Gyo! You used Gyo to determine her weakness.
Ali: Mhm.
Keith: I did, yeah, I used Gyo to see what her Nen was.
Ali: Wow.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvi: Holy fuck.
Ali: And well, [chuckles] thank you to everybody who tuned in?
Sylvi: Yeah! 
Ali: Thank you—
Sylvi: Thanks for enjoying our coherent story.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: Mhm.
Keith: It was totally coherent!
Ali: Thank you for everybody who supports us on Patreon. Thank you to everybody for your Twitch subs. Have to renew those every month, I don’t really know why. If you have it—
Keith: It’s only if you— yeah, only the Prime subs, you have to renew.
Ali: Oh, okay, sure.
Sylvi: Those are the ones we want, if you’re giving us money—
Keith: The real ones— yeah, those work on their own.
Sylvi: Don’t spend real money though, go to friendsatthetable.cash.
Ali: Right.
Keith: Yeah! Go to friendsatthetable.cash for the Patreon.
Janine: Yeah!
Keith: Go to friendsatthetable.shop, buy something in the shop, there’s also a tip jar there. And then there’s the Ko-Fi link down below too, where you can also— those are all better ways to pass along some money to Friends at the Table than paying Twitch subs?
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: But you know. No one’s going to get mad at you for Twitch subbing either.
Janine: I wanted to—
Sylvi: It’s just ideally, you know?
Janine: I wanted to make a specific little pitch for you know, subbing to a Patreon can be— it’s like a degree of it being intimidating, right? Cause it’s like, I’m committing to this. But we do have a tier that is a dollar a month, and it does legitimately get you I think, some of the funniest shit that we do? Every month?
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: One dollar a month will give you the Clapcasts. And truly, if you don’t like to listen to the big long stories cause it takes a lot of time to catch up or something, and you mostly watch us for one-shots and game streams and stuff, that one dollar is still a really good proposition.
Keith: Yeah, that actually becomes the thing that you want.
Ali: Mhm.
Janine: Yeah.
Keith and Janine: Yeah.
Janine: Even— I honestly, I still, and always have, subscribed to our own thing at the one dollar tier, just because I wanna know the second the Clapcast is up, and then listen to it?
Ali: [chuckles]
Keith: Aww.
Janine: Because I’m I guess a huge narcissist.
Sylvi: Hey, me too.
Janine: More— I mean I mostly like the hear the jokes that get made when I’m not in the recording? Cause that’s always the fun part, is like— well, the games are fun too. But, [chuckles] it’s fun in the beginning when you're riffing with friends, and I want to hear the riffs everyone made! So, huge recommend on that, if you wanna give us a little tip every month.
Ali: Indeed.
Keith: Ali, was the recent Clapcast from Media Club Plus for the first time ever?
Ali: I think so! There were two Clapcasts that dropped last week cause the— the February one was super late. Yeah. But I think yeah, both of them might have featured Media Club Plus for the first time.
Keith: I’ve gotta send in more of the—
Ali: Please!
Keith: I fast— I thought that I missed— I thought that I lost the first like, six or seven episodes? But I didn’t. I just—
Ali: It’s coming!
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: To the Clapcast feed. First Friday of every month, sometimes, hopefully.
Keith: [laughs]
Ali: [chuckles] But yeah, so this has been Unincorporated by Ethan Harvey. You can see on the screen here, go to ethanharvey.itch.io. This is a fantastic game, I’m super glad that we played it!
Sylvi: I’m so happy.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvi: It’s such a good idea.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Mhm. Very refined.
Ali: It’s a very good system. We got as much as we could out of it, I think [wheezes].
Sylvi: We— I would say yeah!
Ali: We really sucked the marrow from this bone. The blood from the veins.
Keith: I feel like we extra did.
Ali: [chuckles]
Janine: What?
Keith: Cause she’s a vampire.
Janine: If there’s marrow in your veins, that’s bad! That’s a bad— that’s not good. That’s like—
Keith: Ali said bones!
Ali: I said bones, and then I said blood from the veins.
Janine: But then veins.
Ali: I said blood from the veins.
Keith: Oh, okay. Blood from the veins.
Janine: Okay. Okay.
Ali: Uh huh. We’re all fine here.
Janine: Ali I need you to roll a 1D4 for me real quick.
Ali: I was the one who got that four before.
Janine: Yeah I know.
Ali: It’s a one.
Keith: Wow, okay. Ali’s not a vampire.
Sylvi: Ali’s not a vampire.
Janine: Unless!
Keith: Unless.
Ali: Uh huh. Uh huh. Uh huh.
Sylvi: She’s a super vampire.
Keith: Sorry I have to— we have to do a— this is a mirror match, so I have to roll if Ali is actually a super vampire. No.
Janine: Okay.
Keith: That’s good. That’s better than if you were.
Janine: If she was, her weaknesses would be stop signs, Twister, and photo albums.
Ali: Yeah…
Keith: [laughs]
Ali: That’s true. Well! [wheezes] 
Sylvi: [chuckles]
Ali: If nobody else has anything real that they want to say, [wheezes]
Keith: Do you have anything else real? I think that everything that I had was fake.
Ali: Okay. Yeah, this—
Keith: Are we going to make time for fake? Or are we just doing real from now on.
Ali: I would like to do real from now on.
Sylvi: Just real, it’s 11pm. Just rea.
Keith: It’s 11pm? Jesus Christ, I had no idea what time it was.
Janine: Mmm. It is.
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: But this has been a blast. Time flies when you’re having fun, and we were having fun let me tell you! [wheezes] But yeah, until next time everybody, thank you. New PALISADE Thursday, maybe a stream on Friday, Twilight Mirage Sunday, yada yada yada.
Keith: Ali I’m sorry that you wanted to do a grocery store game,
Ali: [spit takes]
Keith: And it became vampires right away. That’s my fault I think.
Ali: No! I mean—
Sylvi: We still got the mu— the song in the walk-in freezer.
Ali: We did everything! 
Janine: Yeah, we got a nice spread of different kinds of stories.
Sylvi: I could absolutely see this as a sitcom about a grocery store. It’s just the B-plot that our characters have, Keith, is really out there.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Ali: Right. And to Ethan’s credit, we were given the tools to go in that direction, and we followed—
Keith: We were given those tools, yeah.
Janine: Mhm.
Ali: We were followed the play where we wanted it to take— take us. And that’s Actual Play, babey. So yeah, have a good night everybody! Bye!
Keith: Bye!
Sylvi: Byeee!
Janine: Byeee!