Live at the Table: February 2018 - Lady Blackbird Audio




Transcriber: Patrick (NightinGem) [0:00:00-0:04:18]




AUSTIN: Welcome to Live at the Table, an actual play podcast and livestream focused on critical worldbuilding, smart characterization, and fun interaction between good friends. I am your host, Austin Walker, and joining me today, from left to right as they appear on the bottom of my screen, uh, Alicia Acampora.


ALI: Uh, hi! You can find me @ali_west on Twitter, uhh, the show's still @Friends_Table...


AUSTIN: [sighs] As always. Uhhh, Keith Carberry?


KEITH: Uh, hi, you can find me on Twitter @KeithJCarberry, you can find the let's plays that I do at youtube.com/runbutton, and since you're already at friendsatthetable.cash you can also go to contentburger.biz.


AUSTIN: And Andrew Lee Swan.


DRE: Hey, you can find me on twitter @Swandre3000.


AUSTIN: Awesome. And you can follow me on Twitter @austin_walker, and as always you can join us and help us support the show at friendsatthetable.cash. Did Keith already say that one? Keith already said that one, I think.


KEITH: I did say that you're already there at friendsatthetable.cash.


AUSTIN: That's probably true. Uh, today, we're gonna be playing a game called Lady Blackbird. It was made by John Harper. I do want to shout-out specifically, there's like a very specific k… key, ughh, that's, [sighs], this is a pun I didn't mean to make. There's a system in this game called keys, and that's, that's taken from a game called, uhhhmmm, oh what is it fucking called it's Clinton… Clinton R Nixon's theeeeee...[sighs], it's not sorcerer, it's the door of magic, or something… uhhh… sorry, the shadow [unintelligible] crosstalk by Keith] The Shadow of Yesterday, yeah, it was a game by a guy named Clinton R Nixon, and it's one of those--


KEITH [crosstalk]: Oh it's by Clinton R Nixon.


AUSTIN [crosstalk]: Yes.


KEITH [crosstalk]: This game is not called Clinton R Nixon.


AUSTIN [crosstalk]: [chuckling] No.


KEITH [crosstalk]: Oh jeez.


AUSTIN [crosstalk]: It's a different--


KEITH [crosstalk]: It's a two-headed president wizard.


AUSTIN: [chuckling] Yes, exactly. [Keith chuckles in the background] I just wanna shout that out because there's a thing, one of those things that Lady Blackbird at the time was received, like, this came out in 2009, that was like received as being groundbreaking for this system, and a lot of people did not give Nixon his props on that, so shoutouts to Clinton R Nixon on that. 


AUSTIN: Um. Lady Blackbird is a game that's been out for just about a decade now. It's a very simple game, it's a very light game in some ways, but it also is really cool. I've always wanted to play it, and so we're gonna do that. But, because this is Friends at the Table and because, uhhhhh, we are the people we are. [chuckle] We decided to hack it a little bit, very little bit, and instead of setting it in this kind of like, ether, steampunky setting that it's in, we put it in our version of that which is [chuckles] Twilight Mirage. And we are gonna tell, like, by default, as shipped, Lady Blackbird is a story about a lady, not an heiress, but like an aristocrat, who is fleeing an arranged marriage to run off to her space pirate boyfriend and get married. Um, and is, is captured by the kind of, the empire she's part of and, y'know, has to confront her loyalty to her empire versus her loyalty to her love. 


AUSTIN: We're not doing that. Instead, what we're going to do is a story about how Absolute Territory, who is the King of Glass, the King of the Crown of Glass, left and escaped the Rogue Wave, or specifically the Herringbone Flotilla, and, uh, rejoined Crown. Because if you've read, if you are at— I think it’s at the Mapmaker level of the Patreon, you will have seen by now there's a faction sheet that we have up over on, over on the Patreon, that explains that in the time since the Doyenne's death, in the time since the Miracle of the Mirage, Crown, the planet Crown, and the Crown of Glass have kind of come under control of The Restored Throne, which is the name of the Kingdom of Glass at this point. And it is ruled by a 20-year-old named Absolute Territory, who is like audacious, and charismatic, and deeply charming but also kind of is in a, not a puppet position, but does not have much material power. Except that he is very supported by the New Earth Hegemony. And so this is going to be the story about how he gets there. 
[00:04:18]


Transcribed by Ril @kaorukeihi


AUSTIN: Are there..? We should go over who everyone’s playing, I guess, before we continue. Does anyone have any questions before we continue also? 


KEITH: Um, I have a question vaguely about gameplay if that’s not gonna come up later. I was kind of— 


AUSTIN: Sure. I mean, it probably will, but go ahead. 


KEITH: Yeah. I was kind of confused, there’s keys and secrets? 


AUSTIN: Yes.


KEITH: I was kind of confused about the difference between keys and secrets. 


AUSTIN: Let’s get into that, actually, let’s start [KEITH: Yeah.] with your character sheet. We’ll open up your character sheet here. 


KEITH: Hello. [Quiet snickering]


AUSTIN: This system is really neat… What was that? What was..? [DRE chuckles]


KEITH: I was saying hi, it’s me at the character sheet. [Laughter]


AUSTIN: That was you at— Got you, great. [ALI laughs.]


KEITH: Can we go back? Can I be really into me for a second? 


AUSTIN: [incredulously] Can you be really into you for a second? 


KEITH: Yeah— I’m rewinding the chat...


AUSTIN: What’s the difference between that and, and normal? 


DRE: [crosstalk] Keith? 


AUSTIN: Keith, yeah. 


KEITH: I’m rewinding to read something I said in the chat that I thought was too funny.


ALI: Okay, so this is normal. Okay.


AUSTIN: Oh yeah, okay. 


KEITH: [laughing a bit] It was back when we were talking about Clinton R Nixon…


AUSTIN: I get it.


KEITH: I said “The only way to be a true centrist is to have the head of a Republican and a head of a Democrat.” 


AUSTIN: [smiling] Yeah, got it. Good joke. [AUSTIN sighs heavily] [ALI giggles] Absolute Territory AKA you’re going by the fake name Conditional Sky, no relation, I believe. Um… Like, obviously no relation ‘cause it’s a fake name, again.


KEITH: [crosstalk] This is a fake name. yeah. When we were coming up with a fake name we forgot, that it was— [ALI laughs.]


AUSTIN: We did. 


ALI: I gave Keith permission to come up with that name!


AUSTIN: You were like “Yeah, I guess, it’s okay. We could be cousins or something.” And I was like ‘Wait! Wait, no, it’s a fake name, not real.” [ALI laughs]


KEITH: We are still cousins but it’s just… Kylie[1] and I have different last names, she’s Church and I’m Carberry.


ALI: Aww, we’re so close that you took my surname! 


KEITH: That’s what it is.


ALI: That’s cute! Okay, sure. 

AUSTIN: [exasperatedly] You were born on Quire before the Divine Fleet got there! [ALI laughs] I mean, after— 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Yeah, we’re long distance cousins.


AUSTIN: I mean, I guess there’s like— there’s a chance, there’s like a thousand year chance, and 800 year chance that you could be related, right? I guess. Theoretically. Because Crown of Glass used to be…


KEITH: No, no relation. No relation. 


AUSTIN: Okay, no relation. Um… Uh, so…


ALI: [laughing] Star-crossed cousins. [DRE chuckles]


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Oh my fucking God. 


KEITH: Literally star-crossed. [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: [sigh] Okay. So, the way these sheets work, you have Traits which then have tags. So, like, for instance, Keith, you have the Noble trait, [KEITH: Yeah.] you also have all of these tags here, like Etiquette, Dance…


KEITH: Oh, you’re answering the question I asked. 


AUSTIN: I am. It’s what I’m gonna do. [Snickering in the background] And the way that you do things in this game is that you pick one of the Traits that you have that is relevant… Like, let’s say, let’s say I asked you— You’ve wound up in a sort of situation where you have to dance, you would have to pick like a thing “Okay, Noble, that gives me 1 die, and then are any of the tags under applied?” So, in this case Dance, and maybe you’d say like, you know, [KEITH: Uh-huh.] “And also I think Etiquette ties in there ‘cause I know like the etiquette of dance. [KEITH: Uh-huh.] And like maybe Wealth? Because I have like a nice like, gown on.” Or something. That’ll be like 3 dice. And then you also (if you wanted to) spend one of your dice from—you have like a special pool of dice, and those are consumable. I think you can spend 1 per… There’s a really useful page, ‘cause you can just roll down and look at the rules, actually. 


KEITH: Yeah-yeah-yeah.


AUSTIN: It’s really fucking good. And so you can add any number of dice from your personal pool of dice to add to the roll. 


KEITH: And they’re non-replenishable until you do a certain type of scene? 


AUSTIN: They- [ALI sighs.] Actually, that’s… I don’t think that that’s true. You could also replenish them by failing while spending— while spending them. 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Oh, I didn’t see that! 


AUSTIN: If you don’t pass, you don’t yet achieve your goal. But, you get to keep the pool dice you rolled and add another die to your pool. [KEITH: I see.] So, if you’re spending them, you can get the back when you fail, [KEITH: Okay.] which is kind of nice. 


KEITH: Sorry, I just— I guess I just didn’t factor in I’m failing ever in... 


ALI: [laughing] You sure? 


AUSTIN: Right. Sure. That adds up. 


KEITH: I’m just that fucking good.


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


KEITH: I mean, I know that it’s gonna happen but I don’t ever consider it, you know? [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: Sure. Totally. 


KEITH: I’m just going “This is gonna fucking work, man.” 


AUSTIN: Gotcha. So, keys and secrets. Keys are like beliefs in a sense. They’re how you get xp, they’re the only way you really get xp in this system as far as I… as far as I know. If you hit a key, if you, like, do the thing, so like “Hit your key when you demonstrate your superiority or when your noble traits overcome a problem.” That’ll give you an xp. You’ll get 2 xp if you let your key get you into trouble, so like… So, Key of the Impostor, you have, Absolute Territory, says: “You are in disguise, passing yourself off as a commoner. Hit your key when you perform well enough to fool someone with your disguise.” But you would do more than just hit it if you let your disguise— If you were like “Oh yes, I’m doing my best Commoner Impression.” and like, that gets you into trouble. That would give you 2. 


AUSTIN: And then, finally, when you have a— Finally, when you— You can buy off a key, which will give you 2 levels immediately, but it has to have like— There’s a condition for it, right? So like, for instance, you could disown your noble heritage. And that would give you two advances right away. For the— For the sake of this game, let’s not disown your noble heritage. [ALI chuckles] Unless that ends up meaning there’s some sort of weird clone on the throne, I don’t know. Who knows? Um. But, or like, if you- if you reveal your true identity to someone you previously fooled, for instance, you’d get rid of that key, cash it out as 2 level-ups, basically. 


AUSTIN: Secrets are just super abilities. Secrets are just like, you have a dope thing also. So like, the Secret of Inner Focus says: [KEITH: Uh-huh.] “Once per session, you can re-roll a failure when doing Sorcery.” So like, that’s— Secret of Stormblood says: “As long as you can speak, you can channel magic and do Sorcery.” You have the Master Sorcerer trait, and Storblack- Stormblood tag. So that’s what’s happening over here. 


KEITH: Okay. 


AUSTIN: We need to decide if that’s what your magic is like . Like, do you have cool wind and lightning magic, or do you have some other type of weird magic? 


KEITH: Honestly, I thought… I was like thinking really hard about what sort of magic I can have in a post-Miracle world… [AUSTIN: Yeah.] And I just kept going “Storm magic is sick.” [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: It’s so sick! Especially like ‘cause like- ‘cause like the Twilight Mirage has a bunch of cool clouds and shit, so. [KEITH: Yeah.] I’m into it, we can keep that. 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Awesome. So, that’s your character. Also, just briefly, like to… Absolute Territory is the only character here who I know anything about it, and it lines up here, like I said kind of… By the time Absolute Territory is on the throne, I know that he’s very charming, [KEIHT: Uh-huh.] he is very cunning, these kind of— the stats line up to him very nicely.


KEITH: It’s hard to not know this about me. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I know. I know, Keith. I’m glad you picked this character. He’s a— 


KEITH: [crosstalk] [smiling] That’s not how it happened! You know that that’s not how it happened! [AUSTIN laughs] I was asleep, and then I woke up and this was the only character left! 


AUSTIN: That’s true. 


ALI: That’s… We asked your permission. 


AUSTIN: We didn’t. [ALI laughs] 


KEITH: That’s true, and I gave it, I did give...


AUSTIN: You did give it. Other important things about him. Um. He likes telling stories… [KEITH: Hm.] I imagine this whole game is him telling his court the story of how he escaped the Herringbone Flotilla, which gives us a lot of leeway in terms of canon, right? [KEITH: Yeah.] Like, everything here is— Let’s think about this as a bit of a tall tale. 


KEITH: You will never believe how fucking big this fish was. 


AUSTIN: Exactly, 100%. 


ALI: [crosstalk] Can— 


AUSTIN: Go ahead. 


ALI: I don’t wanna stop you, but I do want to just like… Can we talk about how much this character has been on screen at all after the— If any? 


AUSTIN: What do you mean? 


ALI: Um, Absolute Territory? 


AUSTIN: Yes? 


ALI: ‘Cause we’re talking about them as if they’re like… an established character in the story, but I don’t know that they’ve come up in the podcast. 


AUSTIN: Oh, no-no-no, he… He hasn’t come up in the podcast at all yet. [ALI: Okay.] He’s in the faction sheet. That’s it, that’s why I’m talking about him. People have seen his name and have said “I can’t believe Austin named a character Absolute Territory.” 


ALI: [laughing] Okay. 


AUSTIN: So I’m just giving this is like as like “Hey, here’s some things about him” ‘cause I’m about to ask you and Dre about your characters, and so I’m giving what I know about Absolute Territory, and then like Keith can fill in any other gaps there. Um. 


ALI: Okay. 


AUSTIN: Other stuff is like… I know visually what he looks like, which is I know that he’s… he’d played by someone from Southeast Asia, probably India. In the past I’ve like… I’ve always struggled with how to talk about characters who are trans, and like have always been like “Okay, I think there’s ways to do this subtextually in the text.” Which is what happened with Jace, which is what happened with Chiron. I’m just gonna say that this character is a trans man. [ALI: Uh-huh.] And just like, hey, that’s a fact about this character. I imagine him as having dark hair, and like… kind of like bangs, and big brown eyes, very like shiny black hair. And I think his fashion is just like off the fucking charts. Just like… Keith, I need you to just be as extra as fucking possible. 


KEITH: Okay. 


AUSIN: High, high-high-high fashion here, so. 


KEITH: Okay. 


AUSTIN: That is what I know about this. 


KEITH: Oh, high fashion, okay. 


AUSTIN: Yeah-yeah-yeah, uh-huh. [ALI laughs]


KEITH: Yeah, that’s the opposite version of the extra I normally am at. 


AUSTIN: Yes. But normally you’re at like side fashion, or like… 


KEITH: Oh yeah. 


AUSTIN: Do you know what I mean? 


KEITH: I’m wearing like… I’m wearing like the bad trash bags where everyone can see your trash. That’s the trash bag I’m wearing. [AUSTIN: Right.] The clear ones. 


AUSTIN: Yes, perfect. God. 


KEITH: Not that. 


AUSTIN: Do you have anything else that you wanna set up about Absolute Territory or should we move on? 


KEITH: Um, we should move on, I feel like I’ll get the hang of...


AUSTIN: You’ll get there.


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Let’s talk about the captain of the- the Yellow Flag who was hired to come bust you out of the Rogue Wave’s— or of the Herringbone Flotilla’s kind of… Uh, you weren’t even captured at first, at first you were just like, there, and then all the shit went to— everything went to shit, the Miracle of the Mirage happened, and Will, Captain Will who is— the High Captain Will who is the head of the Herringbone Flotilla, previously the head of the entire Rogue Wave before Brighton kind of declared loose civil war, a kind of a contention for the leadership. ...realized that you were an important, like, bargaining chip, and so like… Was like “Oh shit! We’ve to capture him!” But before you could— Uh. Before he could capture you, you managed to get picked up by Flashback, who is Ali’s character, in the Yellow Flag, and began to leave. But then the whole ship was captured, and that’s where we’re gonna come in. So, Flashback, tell me about you. 


ALI: Hi! So, I am Captain Flashback. I’m a former Earth Hegemony, like, soldier, who like came into the Mirage and was like “Fuck this!” basically. [AUSTIN laughs] And just like didn’t even complete my mission, like just abandoned, and like— 
[00:15:00]


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Were you like— 


ALI: I’m a ship captain now. You know, X years later. 


AUSTIN: Were you just like “This place is dope, I gotta go!”? Or was it like… Or was it like a specific thing kind of like pissed you off and so you left? 


ALI: I think it was part of that. I think it was like… I mean, I’ve thought of this 15 minutes ago so I don’t know... [ALI laughs] It’s about— 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Yeah. Like, this is how all this is gonna go. Yeah. 


ALI: But it’s definitely like… Ithink it... I don’t wanna like... I don’t know what this mission was but I think it was definitely like… “This… This is weird, right?” Like… 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 


ALI: With the, like, casualness that people are able to sign up like we’ve seen with Morning’s, [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] I think like, coming to a place and seeing like there’s people here, that’s actually like beautiful, and like, is easy enough to just be like “Oh, I could just make a different life here.” 


AUSTIN: Right, right. 


ALI: Especially if like her, you know, mission was particularly cruel, or like, really hard or something like that. Just being able to be like “I’m just gonna fuck off and like work on these docks for a few years until I get a cool ship...” is like a thing… 


KEITH: Like, what are you gonna do, get in trouble for deserting? 


AUSTIN: RIght, exactly. 


ALI: Yeah, exactly! I was sent here with nine people… It’s huge. 


AUSTIN: So, are you from previous sleep detachment, basically? [ALI: I think so.] Like the sleep detachment from before Morning’s Upper— Hm. Morning’s Observation? [ALI laughs] Or something like that? 


ALI: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Okay, cool. [ALI: Yeah.] Yeah, I’m into it. 


ALI: I also… So, I was gonna, before we decided on this, I was like “Oh, I’m gonna put this in Twilight Mirage chat!” and then was like “No-no-no, this is my character for tonight.”


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


ALI: So I’m DMing it to you now, [AUSTIN: Oh, sick.] which is the @Miyabi20002001 Tweet from—I’m also just gonna put this into the youtube channel. 


AUSTIN: OH MY GOD! 


ALI: Yeah. Uh-huh. Yep. [ALI giggles] 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Yo! What’s good! Are you kidding me! 


ALI: Yeah, I know! I was like “Okay, sure…” 


DRE: Oh boy…


AUSTIN: Oh my god… [DRE laughs] 


ALI: I think, like… 


AUSTIN: Hey, I think we might need to play this all the time now. [ALI laughs] 


ALI: Just retire Tender, sorry… I’m thinking of this but like even more if I was from an actual pirate ship, right? Like, more leather and like, browns than like black and purple like this is? [AUSTIN: Yeah.] But like basically this whole… 


AUSTIN: Yes. Do you have this cool face tattoo also? 


ALI: [laughing] Of course! 


AUSTIN: Or something like it? 


ALI: And I like, ‘cause this— 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Do you have these, like, birds on the side of your head? 


ALI: [laughing] Yeah.


KEITH: Yeah, I think those are dragoons from Panzer Dragoon. 


AUSTIN: Yes. Do you have these dragoons? 


ALI: Yeah, the reason that I was like “Oh this is my character for tonight”, and I know that it is because I want to be able to control the ship through these weird like leggy things on my face. 


AUSTIN: Yo! That’s so good! 


ALI: So that’s my story. I have a ship, and I...


AUSTIN: Awesome! I have a question. [ALI: Yeah.] You have a thing called Secret of Warpblood: Once per session, you can teleport yourself or someone you’re touching. How? How do you do that? 


ALI: Um…


KEITH: Quickly. 


AUSTIN: Is that from these cool fucking head things? Are they just like— 


ALI: Yeah. I mean, magic exists, right? I can do stuff. 


AUSTIN: It does, it does. And we’ll see it in action when it happens, huh? 


ALI: I like it as being like something that’s built into the ship almost? [AUSTIN: Okay.] Like an upgrade from the ship that was like “Oh, I have the…” You know how um, in Nier you have like the chips which are like auto aim, yadda-yadda-yadda? Things like that. 


AUSTIN: Yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah.


ALI: Things like that. It’s like, I’ve installed this thing in my ship where we can get out of here really fast! 


AUSTIN: Right, got it. Totally. 


ALI: But it brings me back to the ship or like out of it. 


AUSTIN: God, someo—Riley, Riley Rethal in the chat notes that we, these are like… Canonically we already know that like Regalia exist in Apostolos [ALI giggles], and this is like a version of that, except it can like leave your head and fly around. That’s so good. Okay, cool. Okay. You have anything else or can we move on to Dre’s character whose name is also so extra? [DRE laughs] 


ALI: I think we’re good. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Awesome. Oh, I need to change this, one second. I’ve written Herringbone Flotilla here but— [typing] “from the…”—I guess it’s probably not “you got exiled” but “went AWOL from the- the NEH.” [ALI: Hegemony.] Yeah, Hegemony. Alright. Boop, bop. Um, alright. 


AUSTIN: So. Half Past The Minute Hand. Which is a great space pirate name. 


DRE: Half Past By The Minute Hand, please. 


AUSTIN: Oh, sorry, Half Past By The Minute Hand! Holy shit! [ALI laughs] What’s- What’s up? What’s- What’s up with you? 


DRE: Um, so I think Half Past By The Minute Hand, he was born on Quire, and I think he was just kind of nobody [AUSTIN: Mhm.] until the Post-Miracle happened, and he was in just like the right place in the right time, and like got into some weird artifacts. Maybe he was like a farmer or something, I don’t know. And he was like tilling his like crops in like his weird space tractor, [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] hit something. And he was just like “Uh, I wonder what this is.” And like pulled out something that, whatever, gave him like space magic powers, basically. 


AUSTIN: I have a question, actually. Because like, you… your character is like… your keys are things like “I like shiny things”, [DRE: Yeah.] stuff like that. Were you like part of the Mandati? Were you like someone who did do a little scrapping and salvaging on the side? Or were you just like… [DRE: Yeah…] Were you just like… Did that greed exist beforehand or did that come after you got this like little bit of weird Quire artifact stuff going? 


DRE: Actually, I like that ‘cause I think… Okay, so yeah, scrap everything I said about the farmer shit. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


DRE: Replace nobody farmer with like nobody scrapper. [AUSTIN: Okay.] So somebody who like just kind of picked shit up, sold it where they could, [AUSTIN: Right.] and just happened to come across this weird thing. ‘Cause I think where this picks up, Half Past By The Minute Hand has gone through like their fucking like arc of like “Oh, why did this happen to me? Was I, like, picked for some, like, greater important purpose?” 


AUSTIN: Right. 


DRE: “I’ve got to, like, figure out my destiny!” And somebody has already come over and hit him over that head and been like “No, fucker, things just happen to people.” [AUSTIN: [happily] Right.] “This doesn’t mean you’re like super special. Like, just do the best you can.” 


AUSTIN: Right. And now you’ve joined up with this smuggler.


DRE: Yeah. And you know, maybe Flashback was the person who hit him over the head and was like “No, fucker, just keep living your life.” [ALI laughs.] “You don’t have the weight of destiny on your shoulders.” 


AUSTIN: Right, right. 


DRE: I don’t have a lot of ideas for this person in terms of description but I know one of the things they have is Secret of Concealment, and that is that they always have like a couple of items on them no matter how thoroughly they’re searched. [AUSTIN: Mhm.] So I think this person is just like… fucking like… Kingdom Hearts / Final Fantasy VIII like, [ALI laughs breathlessly] just buckles and pockets in everything.


AUSTIN: Oh my fucking god. 


DRE: Like, does- Does he have an article of clothing? Yes. How many pockets does it have? I don’t know, how many can you fit? [AUSTIN and ALI laugh] 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Pockets with pockets in them…Yeah. 


DRE: [crosstalk] There’s just zippers and buttons… Yep. Mhm. 


KEITH: Is it like one of those wallets where the pockets are literally stacked on top of each other? Where there’s pockets upon… 


DRE: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Good. 


KEITH: Okay. 


DRE: Mhm. You know how like certain pairs of pants or jeans have like the little pocket inside your pocket? 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


ALI: Ooh. 


DRE: That’s every pocket on every article of clothing. 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] It’s that? Okay. [ALI laughs] Good. Good. So wait, really quick, what are the artifacts? That let you do… So the specific thing that you have is that you have Petty Magic which says “use one spell tag at a time”. Which is important, right? Because like, Absolute Territory has Master Sorcerer [KEITH laughs] which means that he can use… He can be like “Alright, I’m gonna do this with Master Sorcerer, and that means I’m gonna use Spellcaster, and Stormblood, and Lightning.” And that’s like a lot of dice, right? 

DRE: Uh-huh. 


AUSTIN: You have Petty Magic, which means you can be like “I’m gonna use Petty Magic, Jump spell!” and like that’s it! That’s all, you can’t do a Jump spell and a Dark spell at the same time, it’s not a thing you can do. So like, what are the objects that let you do this? What are the kind of weird Quire-touched artifacts? 


DRE: Uh… Um. 


AUSTIN: Terrence Hector in the chat says “It took a 100,000 years, but JNCOs are back, baby!” [ALI laughs.] 


DRE: Yes! I think he has like magic coins. And so— 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Oh fuck, that’s really good. 


DRE: —he like just pulls a coin out of one of these nine million pockets, and like when he flips it in the air that casts a spell. 


AUSTIN: Can I say that they’re blank coins? And what you flip them, they get engraved while they’re flying through the air, and we always get a like a close up, 


DRE: Hell yeah! 


AUSTIN: and it’s like of someone jumping, or like of a cloud covering the sun, or something like that? You know what I mean? It’s like something… That’s all. That’s how I want that to look. 


DRE: Mhm. 


AUSTIN: Uh, you know. Just so we know. 


AUSTIN: Alright, I think that that’s it. I think this is a really great group, I think that I fucking… [ALI chuckles] What a powerful… What a powerful powerful powerful group. So. You got captured. [AUSTIN laughs] That is the setup of this game. You… So. Let me just set it up a little bit better. Let’s like, slow it down and return back to normal.

KEITH: It sounds impossible that we got captured. 


ALI: I know. 


AUSTIN: I know, but, you know, sometimes these things happen. [Quiet laughter] Let’s go like… You know, let’s imagine a month or two before the Miracle of the Mirage happens. Absolute Territory is- is, you know, 19 years old, is living his life on a ship in the Herringbone Flotilla... Remember, like, grew up under the last king of the Crown of Glass for the first ten years of his life. You know, that’s why you have all of that shit that’s like you know stuff. The reason that you have stats like Etiquette, and Dance, and Educated, you had that from when you were a child, and also you had like a bodyguard who came with you when you were kind of secreted away and hidden, as a kind of a secret heir to the Crown of Glass. And you… And who taught you this stuff, and who kept teaching you about home, and about how to, you know, science and all that stuff. 


KEITH: Yeah. My bodyguard life coach. 


AUSTIN: Right. Right. Who I think probably died during what just happened. [KEITH: Oh shit!] Otherwise- Otherwise they would be on this list of characters. But no one’s playing this character. 


AUSTIN: So, you were… you were being raised there, and I think you probably were just like living a normal life? You were just kind of like… doing some boat shit, you know? The Herringbone Flotilla only recently went to space. So you were just like literally living on boats on Quire for most of your life. And then like when everything happened with the Mirage… or with Miracle, rather, you ended up going to space for the first time, and like, getting your head around space travel, and, you know, meeting people from all these other cultures… 


ALI: Oh. 


DRE: Uh-oh. 


AUSTIN: What’s wrong? 


KEITH: Oh! I think everyone was robots for a second for me. 


AUSTIN: Oh no! 


ALI: Okay. 


KEITH: I think we’re back. 


AUSTIN: I think we’re good? [ALI: Okay, yeah.] Okay. 


KEITH: Sorry. I was doing boat shit..? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, you were doing boat shit, and then the Miracle happened, and so you went to space for the first time, and so, you know— 


KEITH: [crosstalk] It was probably sick. 


AUSTIN: It was probably sick, it was probably super sick. [DRE laughs] And then right after around the Miracle is when Brighton, the Brighton lineage kind of started making moves because they had already made connections with the Divine Fleet. And so in that moment the, the High Captain of the Rogue Wave, the High Captain of the Herringbone Flotilla, the Excerpt Will—former Excerpt, she used to be the Excerpt of Harmony—she decided that you had to like, ‘Hey, guess what? You’re a hostage— you’re a hostage now.” [DRE: Oh shit.] Because you’re a bargaining chip. Like, you can’t just lose that additional thing, right? She knows that the Crown of Glass wants- wants you, and if you are under her “protection” then that gives her something that she can hold over the Crown of Glass. But then, before she can actually like lock you down, that Crown of Glass’s Saint Auger, who is one of the only people who knows about this… Ve knows about it, Will knows about it, your bodyguard knew about it… I think that might be it at that point. Auger sends… hires people to come rescue you, basically, and get you the fuck out. And so I think you wind up meeting Captain Flashback and Half Past By The Minute Hand, getting on their ship, the Yellow Flag, getting a little bit away from Brighton, and then being caught by the Herringbone Flotilla. If I check the actual book, they put you at the start kind of half… towards halfway between your destination and, and where you’re at, so I might actually move the Flotilla… So I think the bulk of the Flotilla is probably kind of here, but you—I’ll just make like a circle on the map, that’s a fun thing to do… Let’s draw a shape, let’s make it nice and bright… Yellow Flag, right? 


ALI: Mhm. 


AUSTIN: So, let’s make it yellow. Um, you get caught kind of near the southern… space southern end of The Shore. 


KEITH: The royal down. 


AUSTIN: The royal down, thank you. [Quiet laughter] ...And caught here. What’s the Yellow Flag look like, Ali? 


ALI: I think that it’s like smooth, smoother than you would think of like the traditional Twilight Mirage like spaceship. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


ALI: I think that it like changes color when it hits the sun. Like, when it’s not in light it’s just like a very cool gray. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


ALI: But when it gets hit by light it becomes this kind of like yellow, like, pinkish color. [AUSTIN: Mhm.] And I think it looks really cool. [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: Awesome. Good. So then, let me ask another question here. Half Past, what’s the brig of this ship look like? This is the… God, what is Will’s flagship called? Oh, it is the… It’s The “something” Chain. I have to look at my notes real quick. [typing] “Factions”, thank you. The… It’s a type of seaweed, I don’t know many seaweed by heart. 


DRE: Uh, kelp? 


AUSTIN: Creeping Chain! It’s called The Creeping Chain. 


[ALI laughs and says something, it’s extremely distorted] 


AUSTIN: Oh, everyone… Robots! Robots!


DRE: Oh boy. 


ALI: Ugh. Do we just wanna start… [AUSTIN: Yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah.] Okay. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, let’s do it. Let’s do exactly that. 


ALI: That’s all I’ve got. 


AUSTIN: Be right back. 


[Pause]


AUSTIN: We’re gonna set up a side group in, in Discord, and just hop into that instead of trusting our traditional server, basically. ...How do I add a new group, let’s see… Here we go. Ali, and Keith, and Dre…
[00:30:03]


AUSTIN: [typing] Wait, where is Dre?.. There he is. Boop. 


ALI: Hello!


KEITH: Hello! Hi!


DRE: Oh, hello! 


AUSTIN: There we go. 


ALI: That took a minute, I got really scared.


AUSTIN: Yeah, sorry, I was like waiting for somebody else to do it, and then was like “I guess that I should do it!” 


ALI: [crosstalk] Okay… Yeah, mhm. 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] ‘Cause last time… 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Yeah, I was… Last time… Last time I didn’t get the call, someone else did, and so I was gonna sit back, and then I went to try and do it, and then a lot of people appeared online, and I was like “I don’t know how to do…” 

ALI: Yeah, you only called me, and I was like “No-no-no!” 


KEITH: That was… I was looking for an ADD button, and...


AUSTIN: [laughing] That’s not how it works, yeah. Okay. 


ALI: I was so afraid that everyone was waiting for me to do it. It was terrifying. Anyway, we’re back. 


AUSTIN: So, you’re back. And you’re back, and you’re in the brig of The Creeping Chain which is the flagship of the Herringbone Flotilla, Will’s flagship. And I was asking you, Half Past, what the brig looks like? 


DRE: I mean, I guess if we’re in a weird seaweed ship… [AUSTIN: Mhm.] It’s probably like a lot of like really rigid organic barriers, like coral. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, love it. 


DRE: Like, I just want like old school, like old timey like prison bars, but they’re all made out of coral.


AUSTIN: Okay, totally, totally. And I think that there’s just like… everything kind of bends and pulses in a very organic way… And it’s not that... So I think what’s happening here is that there’s real, there’s like a metallic ship underneath, but that Will has kind of covered it in a bunch of kind of organic and biological materials that give it certain special abilities, um, that, like, will repair the hull if it gets damaged, or will, you know, allow for… That’s where the oxygen on the ship comes from, like it’s literally just coming through from seaweed or something. Stuff like that. So that is, that is… That’s good. That’s you behind these weird coral things. Are there guards around? Or are you just behind these..? And also— 


DRE: Probably… 


ALI: [very confidently] Of course not. [ALI and DRE laugh]


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. I could… You know, they could not… 


DRE: I mean like it’ll be easy on us if there’s not, but if we’re in the cell with this very important royal person—probably. 


ALI: [crosstalk] [laughing] It’s fine. 


AUSTIN: Yes. That’s a good question, actually. Are you all in the same cell? Or is Territory in a different cell than you? 


DRE: Uh, I’m gonna say we’re all in the same cell. 


AUSTIN: Okay, cool. So how do you..? How long have you been here? Are you starting to come up with plans to get out? Is this the first time you’ve ever been captured? Like, what’s the… what’s the play here, y’all? 


ALI: I don’t think this is the first time we’ve ever been captured. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


DRE: Yeah.


ALI: We are pirates. 


AUSTIN: You are. 


ALI: We do do the pirate things. 


AUSTIN: You do. 


ALI: But this, you know, is a big… a big task. 


AUSTIN: Okay, then you tell me, Backlash… Not Backlash. Not Backlash. Flashback! [ALI laughs] I flipped… I did a whole weird thing there! Flashback, how do you get out of here? 


ALI: Um… 


DRE: Yo, I’ve got burglar skills! 


ALI: Do you? 

DRE: I do. 


ALI: Um, I have a bunch of skills. I’m Battle-Hardened, so like… [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] Break out is probably like number one… [ALI laughs.]


DRE: Uh-huh. 


AUSTIN: Tell me what it looks like. Is this like a… you’re gonna pick locks? Is this you’re gonna like slam your shoulder into the cage? Like, something else? 


ALI: I think it’s like… I mean if it’s like coral or whatever, it’s probably trying to break… No, that’s sharp, that’s sharp, I’m sorry, that’s sharp. 


AUSTIN: Good catch, good catch. 


DRE: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. [ALI laughs]


ALI: Do we think we have weapons? Can we just say we have the thing? Okay, I got… [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] You do not have your weapons on you. I think that that’s… that’s… they’ve taken your weapons, you know that your ship is in like… This is a big… This is like a giant ship, your ship is small and is like inside of this ship giant somewhere.So you’d have to find that, you know what I mean? [DRE humms.] And my guess is that your equipment is also somewhere else on the ship. [ALI: Oh, okay.] Probably close by, but not like... you know, under lock and key. 


ALI: Dre, if you have an idea go ahead. 


DRE: Yeah, I’ve got one. Okay. First of all, who has bigger hair? 


AUSTIN: Jesus fucking Christ. 


DRE: Is it… Is it Flashback or is it..? What is Territory’s codename again? 


KEITH: Conditional Sky. 


AUSTIN: Conditional Sky, yeah. 


DRE: Does Conditional Sky or Captain Flashback have bigger hair? 


KEITH: Um…


ALI: Mine is straight, but it’s long. 


KEITH: Mine is not long. 


DRE: Okay. Um… So, how does the Secret of Concealment work, do I just like say I do this? 


AUSTIN: Read it for the audience? 


DRE: No matter how thoroughly you’re searched, you always have a few key items with you. You can produce any common, simple item at a moment’s notice.


AUSTIN: Yeah, you just do it. What’s the thing you wanna do? 


DRE: Alright. So… Half Past opens his mouth and first takes out a small needle and thread... 


AUSTIN: You just had that in there, huh? 


ALI: [very quietly] What?


DRE: And then I say: 


DRE (as Half Past): Hey, hey, Your Highness, do you like magic tricks? 


AUSTIN: That’s you, Keith.


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Oh yeah, I super do. 


DRE (as Half Past): Okay, cool.


[ALI laughs] 


DRE: And I pull two of my magic coins from behind his ear... 


[Pause] 


AUSTIN: No response, just completely no response. [ALI laughs harder] 


DRE: And then I say… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I’m a… I’m a Master Sorcerer. [AUSTIN and ALI laughs] Sorry. I don’t know if you knew. 


DRE (as Half Past): Okay, alright, okay. 


DRE: And then I: 


DRE (as Half Past): Captain, can I just… Can I just get... I just need you to get something out of your hair really quick. 


ALI (as Flashback): Do we wanna hurry this up? 


DRE (as Half Past): Yeah, no, I got… I got it! I just need this thing really quick. 


AUSTIN: [deep sigh] Oh my God… 


DRE (as Half Past): So, can I? Do I have your permission, Captain? [AUSTIN laughs]


ALI (as Flashback): [in a low voice] Oh my God. 


DRE (as Half Past): It’s gonna take like two seconds. 


[Pause] 


AUSTIN: Yes? 


ALI (as Flashback): Yes, yes. 


ALI: [laughing breathlessly] I’m sorry, I thought that Keith… 


KEITH: I’m not the captain. 


AUSTIN: Okay, cool. 


ALI: No, I’m sorry. 


KEITH: I can be a captain if you need me to be. 


ALI: We’re so good right now, and so fine… [ALI laughs too hard to speak]


DRE: And I pull a small scrap of fabric out of the Captain’s hair, and I quickly sew myself a quick pocket to put these coins in. 


KEITH: Did you need another pocket? 


AUSTIN: [losing his entire shit] You fucking needed a… They didn’t take your pockets, my guy!


DRE: Yeah, but I need a special pocket for these hidden coins, ‘cause I know… so I can tell the difference. 


KEITH: This is a magic pocket…


AUSTIN: Oh my God…


KEITH: With false bottom or mirrors or…


DRE: Alright, so, anyway. 


AUSTIN: This is very good…


ALI (as Flashback): Where were the coins before they were behind the ears that you need a new pocket? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): [crosstalk] They probably were in the same hand, he palmed them 


DRE (as Half Past): Hey. Hey, you can’t tell… You can’t ask a magician his secrets, come on! 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): [crosstalk] He palmed them! I’m know what he did, he palmed them. 


ALI (as Flashback): I’m totally asking you! 


AUSTIN: Oh my God… 


DRE (as Half Past): Alright, anyway. Stand back, I’m gonna get this door open. 


DRE: And I’m gonna cast one of my coin spells, and I’m just gonna flip the coin like right at the lock on the door. 


AUSTIN: Okay, what’s the..? What is the..? What are you doing? What is your goal here? 


DRE: Shoot it. I want to break the lock on this door and bust it open. 


AUSTIN: Okay, so that sounds like you’re doing Petty Magic, right? 


DRE: Mhm. 


AUSTIN: And then Shatter I’m guessing? 


KEITH: ...It’s even in the name. 


AUSTIN: [very happily] I know, it’s right there. So that’s 2, go and hit roll. 


DRE: Do I get to use… So, you only use… You pick one of your traits, and then you pick one tag? 


AUSTIN: You pick one trait and then one tag from within that, yes. That’s why, again, that’s why Petty Magic is petty, [DRE: Sure.] it’s that like… there’s all this other… You can’t use Locks here, unfortunately, you know? 


DRE: Right. 


AUSTIN: But you can add extra dice from your pool if that’s what you wanna do. And just to go over how this works, when you roll these dice, I’m gonna set a difficulty—I think this is a th… I think this is a three—and everything that’s a 4 or above is a success. 


DRE: Okay. Uh, I’m… So let’s see. I have two total right now [AUSTIN: Yep.] because of my tag, and… I mean, it looks like when we do stuff we get pool dice back, so… 


AUSTIN: If you fail while using a pool die you get another die, and you don’t spend… 


KEITH: But if you succeed you don’t get them back until you do a refresh scene. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Or from failing with pool die separately. 


KEITH: Oh, later on. Okay, yeah. 


AUSTIN: Yeah-yeah-yeah. 


DRE: And do you set this difficulty level thing? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, difficulty… difficulty is three. 


DRE: Okay. 


AUSTIN: Which is difficult. So, it’s 2 easy, 3 difficult, 4 challenging, 5 extreme. This is difficult. 


DRE: I guess I’ll take three of my pool dice, so I’m rolling five dice. 


AUSTIN: Sounds good. ‘Cause again, the goal here is to get that many successes. 


DRE: Yeah. Which is a 4, a 5 of a 6, right? 


ALI: Ooooooh…


AUSTIN: Yes. yes, yes. 


KEITH: That’s tough.


AUSTIN: That’s tough! 


ALI: Oh boy…


AUSTIN: You got 1 success. So, here’s what happens. You flip a coin at it, and the coin like gets stuck [KEITH laughs] in the kelp, in the kind of coral, and kind of like sticks to it, and then… And I mean, so what happens is, you hear like [NYOOOM] and then you can like if you touch the coral, you notice like... whatever the metallic cage inside of it shattered, but this fucking coral did not. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Great trick!


AUSTIN: And the coral is still very strong. [ALI laughs quietly.] 


DRE: Hmm. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I have a… I’m… It’s.. I’m… I will do the door, please. 


[ALI giggles]


AUSTIN: Wow! 


ALI (as Flashback): By all means! 


KEITH: I’m… Let me actually… I have like the stats page on three different tabs, but only this is one that I want. [ALI laughs] Okay, so, I’m using Master Sorcerer. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh.


KEITH: And the tags that I’m using are Spellcaster, Channeling, Stormblood, Wind, and Blast. 


AUSTIN: You can’t use Blast, Blast you don’t have. [KEITH: Oooh, okay.] Anything in brackets are things that you can get when you level up. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 


KEITH: Okay, well then I’m using are Spellcaster, Channeling, Stormblood, and Wind. 


AUSTIN: What’s this look like? 


KEITH: This… This looks like a bunch of wind that breaks a bunch of shitty brittle coral. 


AUSTIN: Uh, is there… It’s still difficult, so it’s still a three. Oh, you know what, it’s a two now, because… because Half Past destroyed the metal inside. 


KEITH: Yes, he weakened… He loosened the jar. 


AUSTIN: He loosened the jar, yeah. 


DRE: I’ve started it for you.


AUSTIN: Exactly! I’m sure you’ll admit that, too. So yeah, that’s a two. And then I wanna note… What did I wanna note? I wanna note a thing. ...Oh, yeah, the Secret of Stormblood says “as long as you can speak”. So do you says something magicky to do this? Is there like a… Is there like a wizard’s cant? Is there like..? 


ALI: Ooh, spells! 


AUSTIN: Yeah, right! 


KEITH: Okay, so, here’s the thing. I definitely... because of the thing that the rules say, I do have to speak, but I think I try to make it look like I don’t have to. [AUSTIN: Okay.] Because it’s way cooler if I just do it. [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] And I don’t think it’s always true, but it’s definitely true now because I’m trying to make the clock pirate seem like… [ALI laughs] seems like he doesn’t know what he’s doing. 


AUSTIN: Okay, great. Are you using any pool die? 


KEITH: So what do I have? I have— 


AUSTIN: You have 7. You’ve...


KEITH: Four…


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Yeah, you have four, you have Master Sorcerer—that’s one… Two, three, four… You’ve 5 right now. 


KEITH: Five. Oh, I didn’t realize that the tree counts as one, okay. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, the tree counts as one. Yeah. 


KEITH: So that’s five. So I’ll use… I’ll use fi— I’ll use two. It’d be very embarrassing if this didn’t succeed. 


AUSTIN: It would be very embarrassing. Oh-oh-oh! Also, Dre, you get back those, you didn’t spend those pool die ‘cause you failed. 


DRE: Yeah, yeah-yeah. 


AUSTIN: So make sure those get back up to 7. In fact, go up to 8. 


DRE: Yep. 


KEITH: So I’m rolling 7d6… I’m using 7d6 and 2 of them have to be above a 2. [AUSTIN: Yep.] No, sorry, what do I have to do? 


AUSTIN: Above a 3. 4, 5, or 6. 


KEITH: Got it. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Yeah, you got it. You can also just hit the ROLL button and do it, this works though. One, two, three… three successes. Way closer than you thought it would be. What’s this look like? 


KEITH: Yep. I just think… Okay, so like. And inch behind where the coral bars are you can see a sort of a vortex start to form. And so, it like... in an instant you see a wall of wind move forward and then twist, and like just… like, just… 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Wrenches the… Yeah. 


KEITH: Shatters… It just like shatters the whole thing in s sort of whirlpool sort of motion. 


AUSTIN: God. Perfect. Well, the gate is gone, you are free to move forward. 


KEITH: I step… I take one step through, and as I’m halfway through I’m like:




KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Thanks for the rescue. 


AUSTIN: Oh my God! [ALI laughs] What are you… You’ve told me privately that you have a look now, you know what you’re wearing… What are you wearing?


KEITH: I do, I know what I’m wearing. For now at least, I don’t know how many changes I’m gonna get. 


AUSTIN: Sure. 


KEITH: So, starting from the bottom up I’m wearing sort of like a burgundy… a burgundy pointed shoe, sort of like… like a leather but like, an etched leather shoe. [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] A tight cream pant. [AUSTIN: Okay.] A sort of bright white ruffled shirt, and then a fitted silk… black silk cloak that glows in the spot where people are looking at me. 

ALI: What? 


AUSTIN: What?!


KEITH: It glows at the spot… When you look, wherever you are looking at me, [AUSTIN: Oookay.] that spot is bright. 


AUSTIN: I mean, inside or the outside or both? 


KEITH: The outside. 


AUSTIN: Okay, so like, the back. 


[DRE sighs very deeply] 


KEITH: Yes. So if you started looking at my shoulder, you would see my shoulder start to glow. 


AUSTIN: Yes. 


DRE: We’ve— We’ve got to get you away from fucking Grand Magnificent for this next mission. 


[All laugh] 


ALI: I was gonna ask you how many pictures of Paul F. Tompkins you had to look at before you said that, but then you know, you… 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Oh my God… 


KEITH: [crosstalk] No-no-no, no pictures of Paul F. Tompkins. The only thing I looked at was a chart, a pant color/shoe color chart. 


ALI: [laughing] Ok… Oh wow, okay. 


AUSTIN: People are upset that you’re… that your name is Absolute Territory but you don’t have any thigh highs on, referencing the anime concept of “absolute territory”, to which I have to say… Listen. He’s undercover as Conditional Sky. Conditional Sky wears pants, not thigh highs. 


KEITH: Oh yeah, yeah. 


ALI: W… Can I..? 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


ALI: We think that you’re Absolute Sky not… Absolute Territory? 


AUSTIN: Yea-yeah-yeah-yeah… Or no, you know that he’s Absolute Territory. [ALI: Okay.] You know that he is the crown prince of Crown, and that he needs to be returned. Like, you get why he’s important, you get that he is royalty. 


ALI: Just checking. [ALI bursts out laughing] 


AUSTIN: Okay. Um, okay. So you like spill out into the brig, you immediately see, or hear, someone else in one of the other things starting to yell and snitch on you, he’s like: 


AUSTIN (as the snitch): Guards, guards! The… The weird ones are breaking out! 


AUSTIN: Uh, what do you do? 


ALI (as Flashback): I’ll handle this. 


ALI: And I like casually approach the… 


AUSTIN (as the snitch): Guards!!!
[00:45:00]


ALI: ...the person, and like I’m gonna use my Survivor trait [AUSTIN: Okay.] and the… the tags that I have are Creepy Stare and Intimidate. [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: Oh shit. Okay. 


ALI: And I… 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Let me just tell you, this guy is a fucking… He’s definitely someone who… This is another pirate who like went AWOL and who was captured and tossed into the brig to like… For a limited, for like two weeks, and then he’ll go back to service, basically. You know, where he really was is he probably hit shore leave and did not get back in time. And so this is like… 


ALI: Ew. 


AUSTIN: This is like he’s been thrown in the brig to do his two weeks, and then he’ll go back to working the fucking… whatever, to scrubbing the deck, what is… pirate words. [ALI laughs]


KEITH: If they fucking needed him back on time so bad why would they have throw him in the brig? 


AUSTIN: ‘Cause you gotta punish people sometimes, you know? It’s the way pirates do. Make sure that they understand that it’s a privilege to be on this ship. Anyway. What do you do? So you just stare him down? 


ALI: Yeah, I think I’m just gonna be like 


ALI (as Flashback): Shut up! 


KEITH: And like, just like the stink eye? Like, this is a— 


ALI: Yeah, like, this isn’t your problem. 


AUSTIN: Alright, yeah, I think that that’s… sounds like 3 dice. I think this is a 2, this is an easy thing to do. This guy doesn’t want to fucking stand up to Captain Flashback. 


ALI: Okay, fair. How do I..? Do I just type..? 


AUSTIN: So, there’s that ROLL… There’s that ROLL button on your sheet at the top, towards the top. 


ALI: Oh. 


AUSTIN: So…


ALI: Oh, and then it opens up a thing, perfect. 


AUSTIN: Yeas, it does, it totally does. So, by default you have… You have Survivor + Creepy Stare + Intimidate, which is 3, you can also spend...


ALI: [crosstalk] I’m also going to take Tough which is 4… I can do that? 


AUSTIN: How do you show the toughness? I wanna know… Is that just..? Is it like… like crossing your arms? Is it like…


ALI: [laughing a bit] Can I like put my hands on my hips, can that be tough? Is that tough enough? Okay. 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Yes, a 100%, it is very tough, take 4 dice. Yeah, definitely. 


ALI: Thank you.


AUSTIN: Do you wanna spend any of your pool or are you good to go? 


ALI: What am I..? What do I have to beat? 


AUSTIN: Uh, so it’s, it’s… You need two successes on currently one, two, three… four dice. And a success if a 4, a 5, or a 6, basically. So you need to get… 


ALI: Okay, I’m gonna take one from my pool just to be safe. 


AUSTIN: Okay, sounds good. ...Four successes! You crushed it, actually! 


ALI: Perfecto. Yeah, that’s what I was trying to make...


KEITH: Oh wow. 


AUSTIN: He’s like


AUSTIN (as the snitch): Oh, I didn’t mean anything by it… [ALI laughs] Well…


KEITH: Sorry, what was he like? 


AUSTIN (as the snitch): [with more exaggerated accent] Oh, I didn’t mean anything by it…


ALI: [laughing] Jack… I know Jack is in here, so you’d think that happen a lot. [KEITH laughs]


AUSTIN (as the snitch): [with even more exaggerated accent] It was Captain Flashback! 


[ALI bursts out laughing] 


ALI (as Flashback): And don’t forget it. 


ALI: And she just marches off. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Oh my God… So, you marched out of the brig… Somebody else starts to say something, and then you just hear “Shh! Shhh! That’s Captain Flashback!” [ALI laughs] and, and they’re like “Whoa!” and get quiet. 


AUSTIN: So, you bust out of this brig. You still don’t have any of your stuff. Where do you..? How do you know where to go to get your stuff? What’s the- What’s the play? What do you do? [A deep sigh from ALI] Or do you just try to find your ship and get the fuck out and who cares about your stuff? 


KEITH: Um…


ALI: Do we have stuff that we want? ‘Cause all of it can be made up at this point? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, totally. I don’t know, do you have stuff that you want? Do you have a cool coat that they took from you, do you have like a sword? 


KEITH: I’m still wearing my cool coat. 


AUSTIN: You’re still wearing your cool coat. 


ALI: Clearly. …Austin, I’m gonna ask you this honestly: do you think that they took my face chip thing? 


AUSTIN: Oh yeah, definitely. 

ALI: Okay, then we need to get my face chip thing. [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: Yes, a 100%.


KEITH: Yeah…


AUSTIN: Cool. Cool. So yeah, you come out of the brig, and it opens up… I think- I think it’s like a- I’ve described this as being- I actually think that it’s almost like… a big open… You know how a prison is like a… Certain prisons will have just like a big com— not a common area, that’s not what I’m talking about here, but like, it’ll be a bunch of floors up, and then there are cells all along the walls, and there will be like a stairwell down, and like a big empty middle space, do you know what I’m talking about? Just like… Like a long rectangle that has… I’m just gonna draw it really quick… I don’t know how to do this even, but like boop, and then like boop, and then—there. Like this. Where like each of the...Just scroll down to see what the fuck I’m talking about. Where there’s like… this very middle area here, the one that has red in it now, there’s just like nothing, and then there’s like a walkway, and there’s a bunch of different levels of this walkway where you like walk around, there’s a bunch of little rooms next to each other, do you know what I mean? So it’s like…


KEITH: I think I know what you mean. 


AUSTIN: Okay. So it’s like— It’s like that. 


KEITH: It’s a cellblock. 


AUSTIN: It’s a cellblock, thank you. Thank you, that was the word I needed. So, y’all walked out of the actual cellblock into this part of the ship that is kind of… it looks like a cellblock, except each of this little areas is like… It’s crew quarters on this floor, and then—I’m not putting them on this floor, on this floor it is probably security, and like logistics, and like, you know, storage, and stuff like that. And I think that you’re probably at the very bottom of the ship, the very bottom of the ship. So you can like look up and see that there’s a bunch of other floors like this, and you can hear people running around, and there are people who like leap from one side of the kind of block to the other side via like swinging hooks and ladders and shit. It’s very much like a weird big, giant pirate ship. And… So yeah, on this, this floor it’s like security and storage. But like above you there are crew quarters, and another level up above that is like communications, and stuff like that. So, what do you do here? Does anyone have any way of figuring where the fuck your stuff is? 


[ALI gathers breath as if to speak] 


KEITH: ...Armory. [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: That’s possible, yeah. Do you just like… Do you find a map? Do you just find like a… something that gives you the layout of the ship. 


KEITH: Yeah, is there like a “YOUR LOCATION HERE” kiosk?


AUSTIN: There’s… You know what actually probably happens? Is you probably leave this room, and immediately you see that there are guards outside this door, and you don’t get caught right away, but you do see that there’s like a guard… just like a- two guards talking at a desk, and behind one of the guards is like a basic layout map of the ship, like on a wall. 


KEITH: Okay. Could be worse. 


DRE: Is there like… Is there air ducts or anything like that on the ship?


AUSTIN: I don’t think so, actually. [DRE: Ugh. Okay.] I think it’s actually very solidly constructed because it has this weird bioorganic stuff, right? The oxygen… There isn’t an airflow in the ship via like machine ducts, it’s all via organic plants that run throughout the entire vessel, you know? So there might be like roots, or something, but like not people-sized things where people are walki- or like crawling through, you know? 


DRE: Hm. So you say there’s a map behind this desk? 


AUSTIN: This desk where there are two guards. Like, two guards talking about something outside. 


ALI: [sigh] I have a Maps skill if anyone wants me to take lead on this one. [ALI laughs.] 


AUSTIN: So you just peak through the door and try to read it, basically? Or are you gonna deal with these guards first? 


ALI: I… We could do that. The guards, or… 


AUSTIN: The guards also probably know where shit is because they’re people who work here, is worth saying. 


DRE (as Half Past): I mean, listen. [ALI: [crosstalking] Fair.] I could probably get… I could probably get rid of these guards. 


ALI (as Flashback): If everyone’s up for a scramble... I certainly am, but… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): We could try scaring them again. 


ALI (as Flashback): Did you like that? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): It was good, it worked. 


ALI (as Flashback): Okay. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): It was a really good trick. 


ALI (as Flashback): Well, I mean… Then by all means. 


AUSTIN: Mm. 


ALI: [laughing] And I think, yeah, I guess I’ll go try it again. 


AUSTIN: O… kay. Do you just walk… march right out? What do you do? 


ALI (as Flashback): By the Minute Hand, do you like want to come as backup just in case this doesn’t… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I had a- I had a plan to help. 


DRE (as Half Past): I also had a plan to help. 


ALI (as Flashback): Okay. Oh my goodness… Okay. 


AUSTIN: Lots of helpers. [ALI laughs] I should note that there is helping in this, in this game. [KEITH: Yes.] “If your character is in a position to help another character, you can give them a die from your pool. Say what your character does to help. If the roll fails, you get your pool die back. If it succeeds, your die is lost.” 


DRE (as Half Past): Like, do you want to talk to these people and scare them, or do you just want to like knock them out and take this map? 


ALI (as Flashback): It… it… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I was literally thinking of just convincing them to give us the map. 


ALI (as Flashback): I- Yeah… I mean… If that’s something you think that I… If that’s what you want me to do, that’s what I’ll do. 


DRE: Are to saying that to… [AUSTIN: to Territory?] me or..? 


ALI: To, to Keith, to Absolute…


KEITH (as Absolute Territory):Yeah-yeah-yeah, no, yeah, I was… Yeah. I wasn’t like, joking. 


ALI (as Flashback): Okay, then yeah. 


ALI: I march up, again, I guess. [ALI laughs] And, uh… I don’t know. [DRE: Okay, here’s…] Do I just be mean to them again? 


KEITH: Can we both help? 


ALI: Yes. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, totally. 


DRE: Here’s how I help. I take one of my coins, and I just—It’s not a magic one this time, it’s just a regular coin… [AUSTIN: Okay.] And I fucking like flip it so it like hits behind the desk, and they both turn toward like “Huh?” and look at it, [ALI laughs] and then [AUSTIN: When they turn back…] Captain Flashback walks in, and as they turn back she’s just there in front of them. Or...


AUSTIN: Gotcha. Are you also there? Or is it just Flashback? Or, Territory, are you there too? 


KEITH: I’m- I’m also there. 


AUTIN: Okay, I got you. 


KEITH: When they turn around I’m behind Flashback, and I’m doing like Force Lightning thing with my hands… 


AUSTIN: Okay. [ALI laughs.] 


KEITH: Like, I’m just arcing a beam of electricity… 


AUSTIN: Behind her? 


KEITH: Behind her. 


AUSTIN: Intimidatingly. 


KEITH: And it’s really… It’s got like that like super scary electric smack. [AUSTIN: Got you.] Yeah. Like the hum, like pop, like the real… Pop up effect. Electric pop. 


ALI: Wow. I wish I had the Spooky Voice trait, ‘cause I want to be like: [in a very spooky voice] YOU ARE COMMANDED!.. 


AUSTIN: Oh my God. 


[They all laugh] 


KEITH: Pirates are very superstitious, you should play that up. 


AUSTIN: Intimidating and Creepy Stare are kind of already close to that, right? 


KEITH: Yeah. 


ALI: [laughing] Yeah, fair. 


KEITH: Tell them like the ship is cursed or something. 


ALI: Right. 


ALI (as Flashback): By the power of electricity you are commanded to give me directions so I can find my haunted [KEITH laughs]... 


KEITH: My haunted dragoons. 


ALI (as Flashback): My haunted… 


ALI: I was gonna say “coin purse”, but that’s not funny!


AUSTIN: No? 


ALI (as Flashback): My haunted dagger that’s in the… where do you keep all the stuff that you take from prisoners? 


AUSTIN (as the guard): The armory? 


ALI (as Flashback): Yes, that one. I’m from very long ago and I don’t know your… the speech you use these days.


AUSTIN: Oh my God, give me a roll. 


KEITH: You have an extra die from both me and Dre. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, you have +2 already. Then, again, Survivor’s 3, them Creepy Stare and Intimidate is 4 and 5. I don’t know that this is Tough. [ALI laughs] 


ALI: Yes, okay. 


AUSTIN: I do think that this is a difficult thing, I do think you’re pretending to be a weird ghost, so maybe some pool dice is a good idea. 


ALI: I’m sorry for always doing ghosts but yeah. 


AUSTIN: Ghosts are good. [ALI laughs.] 


ALI: Okay, so before the pool dice I have… 


AUSTIN: 5. Survivor, Creepy Stare and Intimidate is 3, +1 for each of them. 


ALI: And this is challenging? 


AUSTIN: This is 3, yeah. 


ALI: Which is difficult. 


AUSTIN: Yeah-yeah-yeah, which is difficult. 


ALI: I’m gonna… I’m gonna...


KEITH: You should take a handful of dice. 


ALI: Okay. [ALI laughs] Okay, this is an important one. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


ALI: I’m gonna take 2 from my pool. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


ALI: Bringing me down to 4. 


AUSTIN: Sounds good. 


ALI: And the number of dice is 7. 


AUSTIN: Okay, that’s a lot. [ALI: Okay.] Go for it. ...Three successes! 


ALI: Three successes, I barely made it. [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: You did! [KEITH: Wow.] Awesome work. Good job. Um, okay. They go like… 


        AUSTIN (as the guards): [tremulously] Ooooh no. Ooooh, why did we arrest a ghost? 


[ALI laughing] 


KEITH: [barely breathing with laughter] “Why did we arrest a ghost?”! 


AUSTIN: And he’s like shaking, 


AUSTIN (as the guards): Uhhhhh… 


KEITH: “No one told me we were dealing with the undead.”


AUSTIN (as the guard): Bell, go tell the chaplain that we wound up with a ghost. I’m gonna lead this nice ghost to their cursed dagger. [ALI laughs] Come with me…


AUSTIN: And he’s like shaking. 


KEITH: Did we tell him it was a dagger or did he make up that it was a dagger? 


ALI: [laughing] I said… I said those words. Whoops. 


AUSTIN: [crosstalking] Flashback said… Yeah. 


ALI: Maybe they also have cool knives here. 


AUSTIN: Mayb— They probably do. 


KEITH: It would be sick if we found a cursed dagger. 


AUSTIN: ...Yeah, I think you have to get a cursed dagger. 

ALI: [laughing] Please. 


AUSTIN: And the one named, the one he called Bell goes


AUSTIN (as Bell): Okay… I’m gonna g— Okay… 


AUSTIN: And he like slowly walks away and goes up the stairs to, to fetch someone who understands ghosts. And the guard who is left behind leads you down like a little side hallway down here and towards… to a, like, secure armory. And I’m just gonna let this… I’m gonna let this roll forward, opens the door and there’s like an armory guard, there’s a… What are the..? What’s it called, someone who like works at an armory? And like handl— 


KEITH: Um, quartermaster. 


AUSTIN: A quartermaster, thank you. He’s behind glass, or behind probably more of this coral stuff… Or you know, maybe it’s not the coral stuff… I think it’s actually just like a transparent, some sort of like transparent skin as like the window, like weird gross… Not human skin, like…


KEITH: Like film? 


AUSTIN: Like film, exactly. Um, and this guard kind of goes over and is like 


AUSTIN (as the guard): [very quietly] Uh, ghost… Ghost… Dagger…


AUSTIN: And then we just get the shot of this, the quartermaster like leaning around and seeing all the three of you again, and then the lightning behind you, and your glowering, and is just like 


AUSTIN (as the quartermaster ): Ghost dagger… Yeah, whatever you want…


AUSTIN: And like [BEEP], he hits the buzz, and a door opens for you to walk in the back, and then the quartermaster just kind of like sits back down, just like [Plop] And like, 


AUSTIN (as the quartermaster ): Huh. Ghost. Huh. 


ALI (as Flashback): Whoever touches the dagger will encounter my spell, so I’ll find it myself. 


DRE (as Half Past): Also my— And also a coat. [ALI laughs] Don’t touch the coat too. So I’m gonna need a coat from in there. 


AUSTIN: You just have access to everything they’ve ever claimed from s… So like, you find a coat from… 


ALI: Oh my God, we’re pirates! This is fantastic! 


AUSTIN: ...the fucking dude who they locked up too, who was MIA, or who was… who stayed out on shore leave too long. You can just take his pirate coat if you want. 


DRE: Yes! 


AUSTIN: What else do you fucking want in here? 
[01:00:00]


[Laughter.] 


ALI: Okay. I’m definitely getting my face thing, obviously. I’m finding like a… knife. Um, I guess it’s a really cool one? If I’m saying it’s cursed… 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Is it cursed? 


ALI: Yes! 

AUSTIN: Okay. [ALI laughs.] Good job. @ali_west finding cursed knives, everybody. [DRE chuckles]


ALI: [laughing] It’s face in Twilight Mirage still. 


AUSTIN: [smiling] What? Say it one more time. 


ALI: We’re still in Twilight Mirage [AUSTIN: Yes.] but there’s curses. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, there’s curses. 


ALI: Hey. 


AUSTIN: There’s definitely curses. And again, this is the story as told by Absolute Territory a year later. You know. [ALI laughs.] 


KEITH: I’m trying to think like: what can you get the guy that everything from pirate armory? 


AUSTIN: Good question. 


KEITH: And I think it’s like an accessory. 


AUSTIN: Like what? 


KEITH: Um… Hmm. Okay, I think it’s like something big and heavy that I wanna use as a necklace. 


AUSTIN: Like an anchor? Like a… like a giant…? 


KEITH: Or like a bunch of like… either a super thick rope or like some big ass Jacob Marley chains. 


AUSTIN: Okay. That’s fine. Just like a bunch of dope chains? Like heavy ship chains? 


KEITH: Yeah, like ship chains. [KEITH laughs a bit.] [AUSTIN: Yeah. Uh-huh.] Like the chain of an anchor. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I gotcha. You just put that around your neck as just like, cool… It’s just like, iron, right? Or like, it’s that, like, color? Or is it..? 


KEITH: Yeah, it’s iron that’s like rusty...


AUSTIN: Okay, is it? Or! Or, or, or, is it colored because it’s covered in some dope living creature that makes it… like bioluminescence. 


KEITH: I think it’s like a moss on it. [AUSTIN: Yeah] Or like an algae. 


AUSTIN: Like some sort of algae that glows or that like has a chromatic effect of some sort. 


KEITH: Um, oh shit, what’s it called? There’s like this dope moss… I just can’t… 


AUSTIN: I’ll just type “dope moss” real quick. [ALI giggles] 


KEITH: There’s... Okay, “water”... Um… 


AUSTIN: You just searched Google for “water”? 


KEITH: No, I searched “all moss water”. [ALI laughs] It’s like… Okay, that’s what it is. It’s, um, marimo moss. [ALI: Oh! Yes.] They’re like these little moss balls. And they’re like super… They look like almost rocks, like furry rocks, but they’re like solid moss. 


AUSTIN: Oh!


KEITH: And I think it’s kinda covered in that. 


AUSTIN: Cool. I like this. This is neat. 


ALI: Is it covered in like that it’s a bunch of little balls? 


KEITH: No, it’s just like the texture, [ALI: Okay.] this sort of spongy, fuzzy… 


AUSTIN: Yeah, gotcha. Cool. Good, good necklace. And what’s..? 


KEITH: It doesn’t get my shirt dirty. 


AUSTIN: Okay, important, important detail. 


KEITH: I don’t know why, I don’t care why. 


AUSTIN: But it doesn’t. 


KEITH: If it would have, I wouldn’t have put it on. 


AUSTIN: You knew this, obviously. You are a Master Sorcerer. 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Um… 


KEITH: And I touched it. 


AUSTIN: Right, like “Oh, it didn’t come off on my hands.” Alright, good. Half Past, what does your coat look like? 


DRE: Oh God, okay. It is a purple leather coat that is just like very long, like it comes down to my knees. [AUSTIN: Okay.] And it just like billows out behind me as I go. 


AUSTIN: Perfect. 


DRE: And of course it has fuckin… How many pockets do you need? 


AUSTIN: Oh my God, I can’t believe you found a coat with more pockets. 


DRE: Also, like…


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Is this your coat? Or is this a coat you just found here? 


DRE: No, this is my coat. [AUSTIN: Okay.] But what I take from this armory is I say


DRE (as Half Past): Give me every belt and wallet chain you have. 


AUSTIN: (as the quartermaster): Uh… Do you… you know the ghost..? 
        
ALI (as Flashback): Wallet..? Wallet chain? 


DRE (as Half Past): I don’t the wallet on the chain, I just want wallet chains. 


AUSTIN: (as the quartermaster): Okay… Let me… Okay. Are you also a ghost? 


DRE (as Half Past): Yes. Well… I wasn’t but then this ghost killed me, and then I became her cursed thrall, so. 


ALI (as Flashback): So don’t say no, ‘cause I’ll kill you too. 


DRE (as Half Past): Booooooo! 


AUSTIN: (as the quartermaster): Aaah! 


AUSTIN: He’s like: wallet chain, wallet chain, wallet chain, wallet chain, wallet chain, wallet chain. [ALI laughs] Oh my God. Belts, belts, belts.


AUSTIN: Alright, you have your gear now. You have a map. You know that you have to go up like three floors and then down a hallway to get to like the hangar where your ship is impounded. Um, uh. I think you probably get like the first couple of floors no big deal, because you’re fucking cool stealth pirates, but then you see that there is like the guy who… Bell, who ran to find that chaplain of the ship, is walking down a hallway kinda in between you and where your ship is. And there is a… tlike he ships chaplain with him. And she has like a long flowing robe, and like gloves that are like… The gloves look like they’re lit up by light bulbs, do know what I mean? Or like they are light bulbs lit up, like, looking at like a regular room light—this is what her hands look like right now. And you hear Bell go like: 


AUSTIN (as Bell): [breathlessly] Uh, the ghost… There’s ghost. So… I mean, there’s a ghost. Actually. 


AUSTIN: And the chaplain is like 


AUSTIN (as the chaplain): [doubtfully] Mhm. 


AUSTIN: And she’s like... they’re like 30 feet in front of you. What do you do? 


KEITH: ...I mean… 


AUSTIN: Again, between you and and the door that would lead to your hangar where your ship is. 


KEITH: Oh, okay. ...Um, let’s see. Do I..? 


ALI: Wha— No, go ahead. 


KEITH: I’m… I’m gonna see… I’m gonna ask a question. [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] Can I fence with… chains? 


AUSTIN: I don’t think that that’s fencing. 


KEITH: I don’t think that’s fencing either. Um, so… 


AUSTIN: Do you want to have taken a fucking sword from the armory? 


KEITH: No, I didn’t.. .You know, I didn’t think I’ll need one, so I didn’t take one. 


AUSTIN: [sigh] That’s fair. 


KEITH: Also, also, I have lightning in my hands. 


AUSTIN: You do have lightning in your hands.


KEITH: And I haven’t seen what that does when I hit someone with it, ever. 


AUSTIN: You’ve never..? Okay, so this is the first time you’re going to be trying to electrocute someone. 


KEITH: Yeah, yeah. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


KEITH: And I’m going to do it. I know that it is not good to do. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


KEITH: So, I have Master Sorcerer, Spellcaster, Channeling, Stormblood, and Lightning, that’s 5. Plus, I’m going to do… I guess, what’s the difficulty on this? 


AUSTIN: What are you trying to do? Are you trying to zap this, this..? 


KEITH: I’m gonna… You know when you use Force Lightning in KOTOR and it like sort of chains from person to person? [ALI snorts]


AUSTIN: Yeah, of course. 


KEITH: Yeah, so I wanna do that. 


AUSTIN: Alright, that’s pretty difficult. I think this is 4, I think this is challenging. 


KEITH: Okay, so that’s… 


AUSTIN: It’s not extreme, but it isn't’ super simple either. 


KEITH: That’s 5… I have 5.


AUSTIN: From Master Sorcerer, Spellcaster, Channeling, Stormblood, Lightning? Okay. 


KEITH: And I’m gonna use another 4.


AUSTIN: Jesus Christ! Okay. 


KEITH: Well, I’m not gonna fucking… fuck it up! 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


KEITH: I’m not gonna like sit here and do bad! 


AUSTIN: Fair. 


KEITH: How do I..? How do I— Does the roll ask me about how many..? 


AUSTIN: Just hit the roll button, and it asks you how many, yeah. 


KEITH: So, I’m using 4 of 9. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. And you need 4 successes. 


KEITH: I just want… I just like… I’ve seen a lot of 1s happen on a roll before. 


AUSTIN: I get it. [KEITH: Yeah.] Like that? 


KEITH: 2. [DRE: Yeah, like that.] Two successes! 


AUSTIN: Oh my God. 


KEITH: Yeah, out of nine. 


AUSTIN: Okay. So this is like, this is like, literally... the, the… So, you’re getting your pool back, which is great. 


KEITH: +1, right? 


AUSTIN: +1, yeah. The lightning arcs out, and it totally zaps the first, it zaps through Bell, but then the chaplain with those magic gloves she has on just like… puts one hand on the shoulder of Bell who is like “Waaagh!” and you can see it literally grounds him. And then she like slides him out of the way and stops the electricity with her other hand, with her other pair of glowy gloves, and then like twist it just a little bit, and all of the lightning freezes in place, like flash freezes into ice, and then turns to water, and just splashes across the ground. 


KEITH: Oh shit! Oh man… 


DRE: Wait. Did you say she has like special gloves that she’s doing this with? 


AUSTIN: Yes, yes. She has like… Her gloves look just like light bulbs. Like, they are... She has hands, but like they’re lit up the way a light bulb lights up. 


KEITH: I’m gotta get those gloves. 


DRE: [chuckles] Okay. 


AUSTIN: I mean, you think they’re gloves, they could be her hands, it could be just magic, right? 


KEITH: They could be her hands. We’ll see. 


AUSTIN: And she says


AUSTIN (as the chaplain): You aren’t ghosts. But you are cursed. 

AUSTIN: And then she like, like claps her hands together [AUSTIN claps], and when she does the water underneath, like the water from your lightning starts to vibrate. What do you all do? It like starts to like… It’s as if… It looks like it’s raining is actually what is looks like. Droplets are falling in, but there’s no rain above it, so. What do you do? 


DRE: Hmm...


ALI: Austin. 


AUSTIN: Yeah? 


ALI: I have a skill called the Two-Gun Style. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh… 


ALI: But guns don’t exist! 


AUSTIN: Oh, they exist, but you only fire ‘em once. 


ALI: Oh boy, so I need like six… [ALI laughs] I just carry a bunch of guns on me. Hm… 


DRE: You know what would help? If you had a lot of pockets for those guns.


AUSTIN: Oh my God! 


ALI: Wow, wouldn’t it. Um… 


AUSTIN: I mean, we have established that like… I think it’s too early in the year for people to have figured out that you can [ALI: Yeah.] build those like silly receiver-switching guns. So yes, you could totally just have a bunch of guns in Half Past’s pockets. Yeah, you could fire them each once and they explode in your hand, you know? 


ALI: Yeah, I’m wondering if I should actually just stick with the Twilight Mirage thing and like… put it away… But I want it to be like a stun gun almost, [AUSTIN: Okay.] and then like, two of them that I just whip out. It’s like Han Solo going whack-whack. 


AUSTIN: What’s a… When you say it’s a stun gun, is it like an electricity stun gun? Is it like a zappy stun gun? Is it like a sound stun? Like, what’s it do? 


ALI: I think it’s like a… zappy, like a hit and… 


KEITH: Like a tazer. 


AUSTIN: Like a tazer. 


ALI: Like a tazer, yeah. 


AUSTIN: Okrag in the chat says: “Guns that shoot once is just like pirates worked”, so.


ALI: [laughing] That’s true, that’s true. 

AUSTIN: Alright. Yeah, go ahead and tell me what’s this look like. What’s this… I guess this is Warrior, Shooting, Two-Gun Style, Pistol? 


ALI: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Probably Battle-Hardened also, right? 


ALI: Okay, yeah. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 is what it is. 5. 


AUSTIN: 5, yeah. It’s still 4 success that you need. 


ALI: Okay. I want to, actually, as we have this pause—how do we generate, like keys?


AUSTIN: So, I gave you one earlier. ‘Cause you very much did Key of Hidden Longing—“You are completely enthralled by Absolute Territory, but you don’t want him to know it. Hit your key when you make a decision based on this secret affection or when you somehow show it off indirectly.”—by being like “Is this what you want me to do?” And then you did it. And so that was Key of Hidden Longing. 


ALI: [laughing] Yeah, I was wondering if you picked up on that. 


AUSTIN: Similarly, I gave Half Past one for the Key of Greed: “You like the shiny things. Hit your key when you steal something cool or score a big payoff.” Wallet chains… What’s cooler than wallet chains, honestly? 


DRE: Nothing. 


ALI: Nothing else. 


AUSTIN: And then, and then, Absolute Territory, I gave you one for Key of the Paragon: “As a noble, you’re a cut above the common man. Hit your key when you demonstrate your superiority or when your noble traits overcome a problem.” for being like “I’m a Master Sorcerer!” and then hitting that roll. [DRE chuckles.] So you get one for that for sure. 


KEITH: Yeah, nice. 


ALI: Okay. I just wanted to make sure that my pool was adjusted [AUSTIN: Yes.] ‘cause you get an experience point plus… I’m just gonna delete them once we’re okay. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, you know, I just didn’t see where the… I just 100% didn’t see where it said Key of Gre—or where the xp box was, so just put those there. 


ALI: Okay. Perfect. 


KEITH: Oh, so we get xp? Okay. 


AUSTIN: I got you. I just updated yours.


ALI: Xp and a die in your pool… 


KEITH: And I’m gonna… I’m gonna help...


AUSTIN: Oh, do you? Yeah, you’re right, you totally do. ...No-no-no, you can do one of two things: either an xp or a die to your pool. [ALI: Oh.] When you get into danger because of your Key, you get two, and you can split those up. You can either get two xp, [ALI: Okay.] two dice in your pool, or one and one. 


ALI: Okay, okay. 


KEITH: I’m going to use a die to help Flashback.


ALI: Please! 


AUSTIN: Okay, how do you do it? 


KEITH: I want to know if I loosened the jar enough for my lightning that she had to stop to be my help. If not I will do something else. 


AUSTIN: You’ll have to do something else. [KEITH: Okay, um…] Those gloves are like… They were like, “Hey, one of them has lightning!” And she was like “Got it.” 


KEITH: Okay. I would, I think then I want to sort of circle around her to like, create a wider [AUSTIN: Totally.] area of threat. 


AUSTIN: Sounds good. You have to like— This is a very swashbuckly bit. I’m not gonna make you roll for anything, but… [KEITH: Yeah.] Because you have to basically swing over to the other side of the room across the gap in the ground. Because again, there’s kind of like two sides of this… of this level, and there’s a huge gap in between, you know I mean? It’s like a mall, or something, you know? Where you’re on a second floor of the mall, and there’s like… 


ALI: Oh, okay, I finally understand the space. 


AUSTIN: That’s what I’ve been trying to explain this whole time, yeah. [ALI: [laughing] Okay.] I think this space is way smaller than a mall, do you know what I..? I don’t think that the gap is that far. It’s far enough to grab some weird hanging chain or something… or seaweed rope or whatever, and swing across to the other side. And then you’re able to kind of circle back around the other way. So yeah, take 1 for that. 


ALI: Okay, so that’s 6. 


AUSTIN: That’s 6. Half Past, do you have anything to help with? 


DRE: Um, I can’t think of anything. [ALI laughs quietly.] 


AUSTIN: No? Don’t have like a weapon or like a skill of any kind? 


DRE: Hmmmm. 


KEITH: Or maybe you just don’t wanna help. 


ALI: Do you have like a diversion? Another diversion? 


AUSTIN: Or another spell? 


ALI: Spells. 


AUSTIN: You have all those coins. 


DRE: Oh, oh yeah. I’ll just… I’ll like, flip a coin up in the air, and it’ll just be like super super bright. Where it’ll be almost like a— 


ALI: [crosstalk] Oh, like a flashbang? 


DRE: —not like a flashbang, but like very bright, right? 


ALI: Oh. 


AUSTIN: Just bright. 


DRE: Just like it takes their attention, and like maybe blinds them a little. I don’t know.


AUSTIN: [laughing] Petty magic. 


DRE: ‘Cause if it’s a real flashbang we’d all be fucked up. 


AUSTIN: Right, right. Yours is just kinda distracting, this is classic misdirection. 


DRE: Yes! 


AUSTIN: Gotcha. 


ALI: Classic. That’s 7 altogether. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, that’s 7, still need 4. This is a tough one. 


ALI: I believe in myself. And I’ve got 5. 
[01:15:00]


AUSTIN: Yo! Five successes! 


ALI: Me and my crew. 


KEITH: How did you get 5 out of 7, I got 2 out of 9!


ALI: ‘Cause I’m really good at this! I’ll show you some fine… Wink. 


AUSTIN: [laughing] Oh my God! Okay! Okay! [ALI laughs.] 


KEITH: 1, 1, 1, 1, 1. 


AUSTIN: That’s a lot of 1s that you’ve got, Keith. So yeah, I think… I think what happens here is that with Absolute on the other side, you know, sending lightning back, she has to stop and catch that with one hand. She goes to stop your taser which would have been stopped by her anti-zappy gloves, but then the light goes up in the sky, the coin flips up, and she looks up and just missed her block with the other hand. And it just, [bleup], zaps her. And you’ve… The, the… As the… As you finish your zap, the… I mean, is it like a taser that has like the coils that come out, or is it just like an electricity bolt? Like, what is it? 


ALI: Can that be my like..? No… My, like, post-Twilight Mirage, like, modification or whatever, that it has the zappies, and you just like… bring it back? Or is that too..? 


AUSTIN: Uh, I think that that’s- I think that that’s f- probably fine. 


ALI: Okay. ‘Cause they’re not like violent, right? 


KEITH: Are they like carged? Or powered in some way… 


AUSTIN: Yeah, they’re super violent, tasers suck! 


ALI: [laughing] They do suck. 


AUSTIN: Tasers are not good. 


KEITH: Tasers can kill you pretty easily. 


AUSTIN: Absolutely, yes. And in fact, like, I think… It depen— I still think it’s probably… 


KEITH: There was recently a cop that killed a kid with some tasers. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, all the time! It happens constantly, it’s shitty! Don’t use… Don’t play with tasers, anybody. And don’t believe them when they say that they are non-lethal. So I think— 


KEITH: It’s called less-than-lethal. 


AUSTIN: It’s less-than-lethal which still means lethal, actually. Pay attention. 


KEITH: Yeah. When you start to read there’s loads to talk about. 


ALI: [crosstalk] Anyway, I like the idea of the… the string, so it’s fine. I think maybe it’s still attached and she just throws them down. 


AUSTIN: Okay. She like drops them and runs, basically? 


ALI: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Fair. You know what, ‘cause I was trying to think if Quire’s shit would turn them into something, do you know what I mean? Like, [ALI: Right, yeah.] would they hit and then like turn into like a long rope of cotton candy or something? [ALI laughs] You know what I mean? 


ALI: Yeah-yeah-yeah, fair. 


AUSTIN: Like, alright, fucking “Done with these, drop them and move!” And she falls. Um, she’s not dead, she like, fall to her knee and is like winded very badly, and you’re able to run past her, and into the hangar, which is filled with people, but also with the… with the Yellow Flag. I think everybody just goes “Waaah!” And you hear someone slap the alarm, and you walk in the room, but like, you have a few seconds. Do you just run to the ship? 


KEITH: I wanna be. I’m booking it. 


DRE: Yeah. I’m gonna do some cool parkour and get to the ship really quick. [ALI snorts] 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


ALI: I know— 


KEITH: [crosstalk] I’m gonna run in a straight line and get there faster. 


AUSTIN: Jesus Christ. 


ALI: I’ve got a horrible idea. [AUSTIN: Mhm.] And I don’t know if I should do it. [AUSTIN: Mhm.] But I kinda want to steal those gloves [AUSTIN: Oh, sure.] for Absolute. 


AUSTIN: That’s a good idea. 


KEITH: Yeah. I did say that I wanted them. 


ALI: I know that you did! 


KEITH: I did, I said I wanted them. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Take and extra key, that’s a hit. Major Key Alert. Update your xp by one.


ALI: [laughing] Yes! 


AUSTIN: God, can you believe that this game came out way before Major Key Alert? [They all laugh] God… 


ALI: Do you think DJ Khaled played this and had a really good time? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, DJ Khaled was like “Yo, Lady Blackbird!” [KEITH and ALI laugh] God… 


ALI: Um… 


AUSTIN: I gotta spend more dice from my pool ‘cause they don’t want me to win! [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: Alright. Yeah, you can totally steal those, and... and hand those off whenever you’d like. 


ALI: Okay, fair. 


AUSTIN: Cool. So yeah, is everybody just running to the ship, basically? As the alarm sounds? 


DRE: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Okay. So, you’re on… What’s the interior of the ship looks like? 


ALI: It’s like leather seats… Um. And like, okay, so you know how… 


KEITH: [crosstalk] What kind of leather? 


ALI: You know how like 70s houses would have like wood panelling? [AUSTIN: Yeah.] I think it’s leather panelling. [ALI bursts out laughing]


AUSTIN: Okay. 


ALI: Where it’s like— 


KEITH: So it’s like a leather-paneled ship? 


DRE: Oh boy. 


ALI: Yeah, I think so. 


KEITH: Does it have a strip of leather down the side? 


ALI: Where it’s a lot of like… like mahogany, like, handrails with like cushioned leather like walls… Very comfortable, very plush seating, very nice… Kind of dark, but like intimate almost, you know what I mean? 


AUSTIN: Okay… 


DRE: I Googled “leather panelling” and I’m into this. [ALI laughs.]


AUSTIN: You have a link? Do you have a link? 


KEITH: Well, mahogany would give a room a naturally warm tone. 


ALI: Yeah, see. 


DRE: Yeah. 


ALI: Let me see this. ...Oh yes! See, yeah, I see. You know how clean this one looks? This has kind of Star Wars wall kind of… 


AUSTIN: [crosstal] So where’s this link at? What’s happening? 


ALI: I’m linki— Hold on! I’m not gonna send a link and not look here first. 


KEITH: Dre didn’t link it, Ali just also looked at it… 

AUSTIN: Gotcha. ...Oh! 


ALI: I like that it’s like very clean squares on it, that would be good too.


AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, that’s nice, that’s nice. Is that the color it is or is it a different color? 


DRE: Oh my God. 


ALI: I think that it’s like a little more maroon…


AUSTIN: Y’all ever want to just go shopping for acoustic panels? 


ALI: Bro. 


DRE: Wait, where did you link this? I don’t see anything… 


AUSTIN: In Twilight Mirage.


ALI: I linked it in Twilight Mirage, and then the YouTube. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. ...Fucking acoustic panels look so cool sometimes. [ALI laughs.] 


DRE: It’s true. 


AUSTIN: Alright, I’m gonna close this before I get…


ALI: We are podcasters. 


AUSTIN: I know! 


KEITH: Mine don’t look nice, but the colors are good. 


AUSTIN: What color is th— What colors do you have? 


KEITH: Mine, mine are a sort of, uh, a really nice red and a charcoal grey. 


DRE: Oh man! 


ALI: Ooh! 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Exciting! Okay. So, you get on the ship… 


KEITH: [crosstalk] The purple and black ones were too expensive. 


AUSTIN: Fair. I bet, I bet, I bet. [ALI laughs] ...So, you get on to your ship, the alarms are ringing out at this point, and what immediately happens is: you have like… Like, through one of the viewports or whatever, you see like the marines of the Herringbone… or, sorry, of the, the Crippled… Now, what was the fucking…? What was the name of the stupid ship again? It was The Something Chain, I’ve just said it a minute ago. 


KEITH: Creeping Chain. 


ALI: Creeping. 


AUSTIN: Creeping Chain! The Creeping Chain, roll through, and being to… And they all have like big harpoon guns, like, there’s like ten of them, and they each begin to fire at the ship to kind of like pin it down. The harpoons are [Pewwwst!], and then like, tightens, and then closes. And they like pin it down and to the ground. So you… The ship is currently like being held by those. 


KEITH: Can I say something real quick? 


AUSTIN: Yes. 


ALI: Please. 


KEITH: I… So like, because of the way that the coral was described in the very first scene [AUSTIN: Mhm.] I got the wron— Like, I just kept on imagining that the ship was giving off the vibe on the ship where you go when you die in Sea of Thieves… Like the super creepy ghost ship. 


AUSTIN: Oh. Yeah. 


KEITH: And I feel like I just took that, and we all just turned it into ghosts. 


AUSTIN: You became ghosts instead. [ALI laughs.] 


KEITH: We became that part. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 


KEITH: Like, from the very beginning I couldn’t stop thinking of it as a ghost ship, and then it just became a ghost ship. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. But you were the ghosts in this scenario. 


DRE: Uh-huh! 


KEITH: We were the ghosts, we brought that to it. [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: Yes, true. Um, alright. 


KEITH: [crosstalk[ Anyway, we’re being harpooned down. 


AUSTIN: You’re being harpooned down from these, these old harpoon guns, [DRE: Uhh…] and being like… They’ve like… Harpoons have been tied to some sort of like metal stake, and they are now like hammering the stakes into the ground to hold you down tighter. 


KEITH: Are we harpooned into the ship and into the ground? [AUSTIN: Yeah.] Or if we cut the rope are we gone? 


AUSTIN: No, if you cut the rope, you’re gone. But there’s ten of them. 


KEITH: Okay. 


DRE: I’m gonna boost the engine so that they’re super powerful, and we can just like blow out of this place, just like rip all these harpoons out of the ground. 


AUSTIN: Oh shit! Okay, how’s that work? [ALI gasps] 


DRE: So, I’m gonna use my Mechanic trait. And I guess I’m gonna use the tag Engines, and Efficiency. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, totally. 


ALI: Uh, can I assist be commanding you? 


DRE: Sure. 


AUSTIN: What’s that sound like? 


ALI: I think that it sounds very much like a…


KEITH: “Do your idea!” [ALI laughs.]


ALI: No, like… is it the quarterback who’s like calling out the, like, signals? 


AUSTIN: Yes? 


DRE: Yes? 


ALI: Okay. I’m just… I don’t know, I’m asking… [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: No-no-no-no, I wasn’t yessing the question, I was yessing what I think you’re about to describe happening. [ALI laughs a bit.] ‘Cause, are you like “Blue 32! Blue 32!”? 


ALI: Yeah! To be like this… As you’re like putting the engines together, like, this is the settings to put it on. 


DRE: Ah! 


KEITH: It’s so that the other pirates don’t know which move are they gonna do. [They all laugh.] 


DRE: Yes. 


AUSTIN: Perfect! Alright, yeah, that’s one. Totally, totally. So, that’s… What are you up to 4 now? 


DRE: Yeah. What’s the difficulty on this? 


AUSTIN: This is a difficulty… 3 difficulty. 


DRE: Alright. I’m gonna take… [DRE clicks his tongue thoughtfully] I’m gonna tale 3 more dice out of my pool. 


AUSTIN: Sounds good. 


DRE: So I’m down to actually three. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


DRE: And that’ll put me at 7 dice total. 


AUSTIN: Sounds good. 


DRE: Eyyy! 

AUSTIN: Did that roll? Three successes, hell yeah! Uh, so what does this look like? What do the engines look like as they kick on? 


DRE: Um, I think there’s just like a huge… like… It’s like they kick on the afterburners, so there’s just like a huge like roar of flame out the back.


AUSTIN: Nice! 


DRE: Like way bigger than normal. Probably even bigger than it needed to be. [ALI chuckles.]


AUSTIN: Okay. Good. And, and yeah...


KEITH: That got to scorch the ship. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, you scorch the interior of their ship, [ALI gasps] and they are like “AAAHHHH!!”, they’re running away… Not your ship, their ship. 


ALI: Okay, good to know. 


AUSTIN: The Yellow Flag is fine. And you’re able to zip away, you know, off into the Mirage. And I imagine you find some sort of like a very dense pocket of deep of… of… Or I don’t know, maybe you just go deep into the Shore, which is this asteroid belt that you’re very close to, and find like a nice hiding spot where you know like you’re not gonna have all day, but you can take a breath here, and can like check on things, and can kind of figure out what your next step is. So much here… 


KEITH: What percentage of people back there do you think still think it was ghosts? 


ALI: Oh, a bunch. 


AUSTIN: I think a bunch, [DRE: Several.] but I think that number will eventually go down as the word spreads about who escaped, right? You know, they… they know who you were on that ship, just the people you lied to didn’t, so it’s about like which spreads faster, the truth or the rumor, you know? [ALI giggles]


KEITH: Right. 


AUSTIN: So. 


DRE: Oh, do I hit a Key for that? One of my? 


AUSTIN: Yes, 100%. 


DRE: Cool. Gonna get these dice back. 


ALI: Do... I thought that I hit a Key for commanding, and also stealing those gloves, I just want to make sure with you before I… 


AUSTIN: Yes, 100%.


ALI: Okay. Cool. 


AUSTIN: And let me know whenever one of you hits 5 on xp, ‘cause you level up. In fact you level up or you get an advance, but you can also just spend the advance whenever you want which is really cool. You can hold on to an advance and spend it whenever it’s like the best for you, which is sick. 


KEITH: Yeah, that’s nice. 


AUSTIN: Alright, so yeah, you’re in the Shore, you’re like in an asteroid belt basically at the very edge of the Twilight Mirage, you can see, like… You can see the edge of Mirage glimmering in the distance, and can see like the black of space beyond, with the stars kind of poking through, which is… Which is different, especially when you’re this close to the edge. And… And yeah, I think everything is kind of calm. Territory, you lost your mentor and your bodyguard. 


KEITH: Yeah.


AUSTIN: Which sucks, you’d hoped that they would have been there with you now. But they’re gone. And Flashback and Half Past, like, you were supposed to be back right now. This was supposed to be an easy trip, you know? [Ali laughs quietly] You did not expect the fucking flagship of the Herringbone Flotilla to, to get in the way. So. What do you guys wanna do, what’s the…? What do you wanna do here? 


KEITH: I have a quick rules thing…


AUSTIN: Yes. 


KEITH: I was going to see if maybe I hit a Key but I don’t see anywhere to bump that up one. Or do I just do it in xp? 


AUSTIN: You do, it’s in xp. 


KEITH: Oh, okay. 


ALI: Or pool. 


AUSTIN: Or pool, yeah, you can also take an extra die. 


KEITH: It’s a… Right, okay, yeah-yeah-yeah. Okay. So, I was considering that, uh, “Hit your key when you take action to complete the mission.” 


AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, everyone should take that, yes. Everyone should take… If you have Key with the mission, take that because you’ve definitely hit your Key, because you’ve taken action to complete the mission. 


ALI: I don’t have that. 


AUSTIN: How do you not? I guess you have the one that’s like “I have a hidden longing”, right? That’s a version of it that… [ALI laughs]


ALI: [laughing very hard] Yeah. I’m in love instead of determined!


AUSTIN: @ali_west on Twitter. 


ALI: Okay. Can we just like… Can you mark on this map here where we’re supposed to be going?


AUSTIN: Yeah, you’re supposed to go to Crown, which is up here. 


ALI: Okay. Okay. 


AUSTIN: Or actually I think that… That was the original, that was the original play. Was to go and drop off at Crown. But you don’t know, like… You don’t know if things have changed. We know that at some point what eventually happens is there’s a drop off, that Absolute Territory is handed off to Kent Brighton, and, and Gig, in the Wake Robin, Kent’s ship, who then delivers them to Crown. So, some…


KEITH: They both seem very cool and reliable. 

AUSTIN: Yeah, they’re definitely both cool dudes. And [DRE and ALI laugh] that means we must know… We, as the audience, know this is somehow not a quick and easy shot from the Shore out to the Crown, you know what I mean? But we don’t know… in game we don’t know why that is. Uh, I’ll mark Crown as the eventual goal here. And also, [ALI: Okay, thank you.] we don’t have to get there tonight, you know. This can be a short session, this doesn’t have to be a four-hour session if we are all tired at a certain point. I’d like to do a little bit more than this because I love this group, but like this could be the first day of Absolute Territory telling this story, do you know what I mean? 


ALI: Right, yeah. 


AUSTIN: In fact, can we take a five-minute break? 


ALI: Yes, of course. 


DRE: Yeah. 


KEITH: For sure. 


AUSTIN: Fantastic. Alright, everybody, we will be right back. 


[Break]


AUSTIN: A lot of people drawing Absolute Territory as a catboy. Which is very fun. 


KEITH: Yeah, that was happening even before there was a name or a game, I think.
[01:30:00] 


AUSTIN: Okay.


KEITH: I saw it in the chat at the very… Oh, there was a name!


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] It was because of— 


KEITH: [crosstalk] It was because of Conditional Sky. 


AUSTIN: Conditional Sky, get it. 


KEITH: But they were saying that, that I was a catboy, that Dre was a catboy, that Austin Walker the human person was a catboy. 


AUSTIN: Prove I’m not. Shit. 


DRE: I am now. Yeah. 


AUSTIN: You know what I’m saying? 


KEITH: There’s a lot of it, too. 


ALI: [crosstalking] What did I… 


DRE: [chuckling] You even seen Austin with short enough hair that it would reveal cat ears? 


KEITH: [crosstalking] That’s all in the chat, the chat says everyone is a catboy. 


AUSTIN: No. There could be cat ears, you don’t know, you haven’t seen. 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Yeah, Austin is a Scottish Fold. 


ALI: What have I missed? 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Their ears are short. 


AUSTIN: You know. Don’t even worry about it, actually. 


ALI: [laughing a bit] I’m a little worried. 


AUSTIN: Mm, we’re good. 


ALI: Okay. 


AUSTIN: Alright. Um. ...We’re back. So, yeah, you’re hanging out in the Shore, you’re hanging out in this asteroid belt. You know, you can probably hear the Creeping Chain doing kind of patrol runs, or… I bet there are smaller ships doing patrol runs throughout the region looking for you, but y’all are skilled smugglers, you know how to stay out of, out of… out of eyes so long as you’re in a place as dense as this, and so long as only these… this set of, of people looking for you. So you have some time to take a breath here. Does anyone wanna do refreshment scene? 


DRE: Um… 


ALI: Uh, I’d love a full pool. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, full pool. 


DRE: That would be good.


AUSTIN: “You can refresh your pool back to 7 dice by having a refreshment scene with another character. You may also remove a condition or regain the use of a Secret, depending on the details of the scene. A refreshment scene is a good time to ask questions (in character) so the other player can show off aspects of their PC, like “Why did you choose this life?” or “What do you think of the Lady?”—the Lady (capital L) [ALI giggles] as in Lady Blackbird, not just a lady that we met—“Why did you take this job?” etc. Refreshment scenes can be flashbacks, too.” 


AUSTIN: I will also note that there is a condition that you need to address which is: you have... the ship has the Need Fuel condition currently, which is the default of this game. [DRE: Hm.] At the start of this game you need fuel. So, that is where you’re at currently. You do not have the fuel you need to go straight to Crown, you would run out on the way. So, so yeah. Does anyone have a refreshment scene they’d like to do or propose? 


DRE: Uh, I mean, I could definitely see… like a scene where Half Past is talking to Captain… [AUSTIN: Mhm.] Flashback. [AUSTIN: Mhm.] ...I love the way that “Captain Flashback”, those two words just go together. [ALI giggles] 


AUSTIN: Oh. 


ALI: Thank you. 


DRE: ...And like Half Past is complaining about how Absolute Territory like showed him up with the magic. [ALI laughs in delight] 


AUSTIN: Oh yeah, let’s please do this scene. Where is this happening? Is this, is this in the cockpit? 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Wait, I’m sorry, I couldn’t hear the last part. 


AUSTIN: Oh, you’ll hear it in a second. [ALI giggles] Is this in the cockpit? Is this in the… Is there like a lounge? Like where is it that you two are having this private conversation? 


DRE: I… Where does Captain hang out? Does she have to stay in the front, like, flying the ship? 


ALI: I mean, it could just be like in the… Yeah, in the helm, right? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, totally. 


ALI: I’m like the commander, and you’re like at your chair after the engine thing, [DRE: Mhm.] and everyone else in the ship is doing their own work. Or is it just Absolute?


AUSTIN: Oh wait, here’s a question. Is it just Absolute? Like, is there a crew to this ship? 


ALI: I have like the Tactics and Soldiers, and Rank stuff, so I feel like there should be. 


AUSTIN: But wait, but the ship was… Everybody was arr— would have been killed or arrested, right? 


ALI: Yeah.... 


AUSTIN: You didn’t like bust anybody else out of prison. 


ALI: That’s true. 


AUSTIN: They probably were all… Unless... Were they all just hiding in here? Was this one of those situations? Where it was like “Just stay in the hidden compartment, we’re gonna come get you.”


ALI: Can we do that please? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, that’s really good, I like it a lot. It’s like, you roll in, and like once you, once you roll back in—we can even do a flashback really quick—into the ship, it’s like you do one of your quarterback shouts and everyone reveals themselves. Like, everyone starts slipping out of hidden compartments [DRE chuckles] spread throughout the ship? 


ALI: All of those boxes of leather on the walls are really all just hidden doors that people come out of.


AUSTIN: Yes! Yeah-yeah-yeah. Exactly. How many people? Is it five people? Is it like…


ALI: It should be little, right? [AUSTIN: Yeah.] It should be like four or five. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, totally. So yeah, so you two are on the helm, and there’s maybe one or two other people there, and there’s, you know, someone down in engineering, and someone in weapons, or whatever. So yeah. Tell me how this conversation happens. Of sorts. 

DRE: Uh, I think like Half Past is monitoring like the engines, just to make sure that he didn’t like burn them out, and he’s like


DRE (as Half Past): Okay, this looks good. ...Listen, you know I could have gotten that door open, right? 


ALI (as Flashback): I’ve seen you open doors, so…


DRE (as Half Past): I mean, I had that! I don’t know why he had to like… get all uppity. 


ALI (as Flashback): I mean… He is a sorcerer. 


DRE (as Half Past): I… Don’t… Okay. Listen…


ALI (as Flashback): It was just cool! It was just cool the way you did it. 


AUSTIN: [laughing] Oh-hhhh…. 


[KEITH laughs] [ALI also laughs a bit.] 


DRE (as Half Past): Oh, okay. Okay. Okay, I see… Oh! So, y— So, iIs he like cool, or is he like… cool? 


ALI (as Flashback): I don’t understand that question so I’m not answering it. [AUSTIN laughs] 


DRE (as Half Past): Okay, but like… Okay, so like, yes. Like, magic is pretty cool. Like, I agree… 


ALI (as Flashback): Okay, do you mean like your magic or you mean like his magic? [AUSTIN groans and laughs] 


DRE (as Half Past): Well, I was going to… Okay. Wow. 


AUSTIN: [laughing] I’m sinking! 


KEITH: [barely breathing with laughter] This was supposed to refresh someone? 


ALI: [laughs loudly] I feel refreshed. 


AUSTIN: Fuck!!


DRE (as Half Past): Okay. Alright. So you think he’s like coooool. 


ALI (as Flashback): I think he’s good at magic, yeah. And we did get out of that cage. 


DRE (as Half Past): Oh, no, okay, yeah. Mhm. I… I… Okay.


ALI (as Flashback): What? 


DRE (as Half Past): I think somebody’s done a little sleight of hand with your heart. 


ALI (as Flashback): Oh, quit it. 


DRE (as Half Past): That’s what I think. [AUSTIN laughs] 


ALI (as Flashback): Is that what people do? See, this is why… [ALI laughs a bit] This is what I mean. That’s not how that works. 


DRE (as Half Past): [doubtfully] Mhm. 


ALI (as Flashback): [sighs] Yeah. I was just thinking it’s good that he was there and got us out, ‘cause… 


DRE (as Half Past): Uh, okay. Mhm. 


[ALI laughs] 


ALI (as Flashback): I… You know, I trust you with my engines. I know that you could’ve. But the way that you tried didn’t work. It is what it is. 


DRE (as Half Past): Hey, listen. Listen. I didn’t know it was like this. So I’m happy for you. 
________________


ALI (as Flashback): Like what?!


DRE (as Half Past): Oh, you know how it is. 


ALI (as Flashback): [grumpily] It’s not like anything. 


AUSTIN: Can we hard cut to another…? Can we… Can I call for a scene? Which is: I really want the scene of you giving Absolute Territory those gloves.


ALI: [laughing] Sure. Sure. 


AUSTIN: Also, yeah, recover your… your, your dice. 


ALI: I have, it just goes up to 7? 


AUSTIN: It just goes up to 7. 


ALI: Okay. Yeah… 


AUSTIN: But like, I want like smash cut from that last scene to whatever this is. Where is this happening? 


ALI: Yeah, Absolute, where would I find you? 


KEITH: Um… My private quarters. 


ALI: [laughing] You have… I’ve given you private quarters on my ship. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


ALI: Okay. Of course I did. 


AUSTIN: Are you given..? Did you give him your room? 


KEITH: I think I just… 


ALI: [scandalized] No, that’s a little much, right? 


KEITH: I think I just found a… I think I just saw a room and was like “This is my room”. 


DRE: Can I make a proposal? 


AUSTIN and ALI, in perfect unison: Always! 


DRE: You definitely took Half Past’s room. 


AUSTIN: Oh my God! 


ALI: Nooo! That’s mean! 


AUSTIN: That’s too mean! It’s too cruel. 


ALI: That… What we had was a banter, not a…


KEITH: [crosstalk] I think… I think if I saw… If I saw a room filled with someone’s shit I don’t think I would’ve been like… 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


DRE: Actually, fair. 


ALI: Oh my God, actually, please, take my room, and I’ll sleep somewhere else tonight. Please. 


AUSTIN: Right. That’s exactly what I was proposing, yeah, yeah. I wasn’t proposing “We’re gonna both be in this room.” 


KEITH: Are there only two…? Are there only two rooms? 


ALI: I bet there’s other rooms, but I have like a crew, [AUSTIN: Yeah.] and I would rather you take my room than someone working for me. 


KEITH: So, there’s my… There’s your room, his room, and then the crew room? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, there’s probably a crew… There’s probably a… 


ALI: There’s probably some bunk beds in some other rooms. 


ALI (as Flashback): And I can just sleep in bunks with my crew instead of making you do that, ‘cause you’re… important. [AUSTIN laughs quietly]


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): What’s the thread count on the sheets? 


ALI: [in a low voice, laughing] Oh my God… 


AUSTIN: Oh my fucking God… 


ALI (as Flashback): What are you used to? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I have… I have, I have one with me.


ALI (as Flashback): There… ...What? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): You told me to pack! 


ALI: Okay. Yeah. Is it okay, you know, [ALI begins to laugh to much to talk]


[KEITH laughs]


ALI: [laughing a lot] I just lost it… 


AUSTIN: [in a whisper] Oh my God… 


ALI: This is now a scene of me showing you my room. [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] and being like “This is gonna be where you stay”. 


AUSTIN: And then giving him these gloves, at the end! 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Oh, oh no, these sheets are great, these sheets are very good. [ALI laughs] These are really… good enough, yeah. 


ALI (as Flashback): It’s… It’s a pirate ship, you know. I’ve kind of played up the pirate thing even, so anything… Any adjustments you have to make to make it more comfortable, let me know. By all means. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): [crosstalk] No, this is a 100% totally… This is totally okay. 


ALI (as Flashback): Do you need anything? Do you want like some water? Or like… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): No. 


ALI (as Flashback): Okay. Yeah, you should… You know, long day, you should rest, relax. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Yep. 


ALI (as Flashback): Also, I… I’m a pirate, I steal things, so this isn’t like… Don’t take this personally. But I did... [ALI laughs too hard to continue for a bit] 


ALI: She, like, reaches into her like—I guess she has that like crazy… No, that would be intimate… And it would be… No, she reaches into her like corset thing…


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. Good. 


ALI: ...where she probably has a hidden pocket ‘cause she is a thief. [AUSTIN: Yep.] And is like, 


ALI (as Flashback): It seems like you wanted these. And we weren’t getting another chance… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Oh, the gloves! 


ALI (as Flashback):Yeah…


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I like these gloves, thank you! 


ALI (as Flashback): By all means. You know, a memento of the trip. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): What’s the firmness on the pillows? [ALI laughs] 


ALI (as Flashback): So, I have one that’s really soft, and one that’s really hard. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Oh, that’s good. 


ALI (as Flashback): Okay. Either, or sleep on them together. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Well, thanks. 


ALI (as Flashback): Mhm. Yeah, enjo— Again. If you need anything… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Mhm. 


ALI (as Flashback): For real, let me know. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Yeah, thank you. 


ALI (as Flashback): Okay. 


ALI: I, like… go to… 


AUSTIN: God!.. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Gloves! 


KEITH: And I kind of hold them up, and I’m like, 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): It’s nice! 


[AUSTIN laughs weakly] 


ALI: I think she like reaches out to do like... Put a hand on his shoulder, and then like decides that that’s too intimate...


AUSTIN: Swings it… 


KEITH: Just leans on the doorway, like, too far. And it’s just too far. [KEITH laughs] 


ALI: [crosstalk] Awesome… 


DRE: Oh man… I wanna do some really bad romcom bullshit right now. 


AUSTIN: Ohhhh….


ALI: Oh, please! 


DRE: Okay. Um, so Half Past has been like eavesdropping this whole conversation…


AUSTIN: Of course! [ALI bursts out laughing] 


DRE: And he just like… Is the door open to the room right now? What, what’s the deal? 


ALI: I guess that I’m currently leaning on it… [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 


DRE: Okay, I’m gonna knock on the door… 


ALI: Okay, it’s like behind me and open, I guess. 


DRE: Yeah. 


ALI: I’m, like, startled, and then not leaning casually, sexily against the door anymore, like, 
 
ALI (as Flashback): Hey! Do yo— Hi. Do you need somethin? Right now? Do you need something right now? 


DRE (as Half Past): Oh… No, I just… No, I just needed… to let you know… Oh, it’s the— Man, it’s so weird! I guess when they took the ship in the custody...


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I’m going to bed. [AUSTIN laughs] 


ALI (as Flashback): If you’re gonna be… 


DRE (as Half Past): No, this is important. This is good ‘cause they like took a bunch of the like crew bunks out of the crew room. So we’re like, short a couple of— 


AUSTIN: Oh my God… 


DRE (as Half Past): We’re short a couple of beds, so… 


ALI (as Flashback): ...What? 
________________


DRE (as Half Past): I mean, yeah, I was, I was gonna like, you know…


ALI (as Flashback): You what? 


DRE (as Half Past): ...throw together some like cots or something, but, um… 


ALI (as Flashback): Yeah, we could do that, we have cots to throw together, we absolutely have cots to throw together. [AUSTIN laughs quietly] 


DRE (as Half Past): Oh… Okay, I just thought that maybe… Do you want me to roll it over into here? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I can… I have a, I brought a hammock, I can sleep sort of put on the bow. 


AUSTIN: You brought a hammock?! 


ALI (as Flashback): No… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I didn’t know what the situation was gonna be, you told to pack. This is a handwoven hammock. 


ALI (as Flashback): You… you are precious cargo, you’re gonna stay here. I’m gonna close this door, and me and Half Past are gonna go. Half Past? And talk about this. 


DRE (as Half Past): Oh, okay. 


ALI (as Flashback): Yep. 


DRE (as Half Past): ‘ll do whatever you say, Captain. 


ALI (as Flashback): You take a nap, it’s been a long day. Great magic, by the way! 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Thant— Oh my gosh, thanks. 


ALI (as Flashback): We’ll talk later.


ALI: [laughing] And then the door slams on the way, which is not comforting. 


AUSTIN: God… Holy shit… 


KEITH: I actually think I set up the hammock over the bed. 


ALI: Oh wow, that’s… [DRE laughs] 


AUSTIN: Very important thread count questions. Yeah, good, great. [ALI laughs] Ohhh, alright. Everyone’s refreshed. 


ALI: [laughing] Are you sure? 


KEITH: I feel really good. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I bet. Oh my God. Uh… Yeah. I don’t think anyone gets Keys from that, because it’s all… it’s not. No one was like making big decisions. 


KEITH: It is not in play? 


AUSTIN: I mean it is in play, but like… 


KEITH: I mean it was not like during… 


ALI: It was… We could…


KEITH: It couldn’t have gone bad so it can’t be a Key. 


AUSTIN: I guess. 


KEITH: Right? That’s what I… 


AUSTIN: I don’t know, this is a thing I’m not… Uh, you know? Let’s play fast and loose. I say take a Key for Hidden Longing, Flashback. 


ALI: Thank you. 


AUSTIN: Territory, take a Key for Paragon. Definitely demonstration your superiority there. And take a Key for Fraternity, Half Past. 


DRE: Yeah! Trying to, you know… 


AUSTIN: I got you! I saw it, I did.


ALI: [laughing very hard] Wait, what is your..? Wait…


DRE: I’m sworn to Flashback in a bond of camaraderie. I hit my key when my character is influenced by Flashback or when I show how deep my bond is. 


ALI: Oh my God....


KEITH: How deep does your bond go? 


AUSTIN: Not that deep… Uh, camaraderie deep. 


DRE: Yeah, it’s… Yeah. 


AUSTIN: So, like…


ALI: The very excited wingman. 


AUSTIN: Yes, that’s exactly it. 


DRE: He saw?..


AUSTIN: Yep. Yep. ...Okay. So. Y’all need fuel, what are you gonna do about that? Like I think you’ve hit the point now— 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Gas station. 


AUSTIN: —where like someone else in the crew is like: 


AUSTIN (as the crewperson): Uh, Flashback, I don’t mean to… bug you about this we really badly need a lot of fuel to go anywhere. 


ALI: I, kind of… Depending on how long we wanna go tonight, and how long we wanna make this… 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 


ALI: I think like… Just looking on the map, like trying to buy fuel from Advent might be fun? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I think so too. 


ALI: Just to kinda see them a little bit. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Totally. 


ALI: Um…


AUSTIN: Um, yeah, I think it’s a good idea. It’s an interesting idea at the very least. 


ALI: Okay. 


AUSTIN: I think you probably get about… 
[01:45:00]


AUSTIN: I mean, here’s the thing. Is I think you probably get about halfway there, so I’m gonna start slide y’all over a little bit here… I need to move… 


KEITH: Getting halfway to the place you just have to go is not… ideal. 


AUSTIN: No, I’m not… There’s a thing that’s gonna happen. You’re like cutting through the Shore, you’re dodging patrols from the Creeping Chain, you know, you’re hiding out in little… little, you know, alcoves and stuff...


KEITH: God, it was called the Creeping Chain, it was begging to be ghostified! 


AUSTIN: I know, I know. 


ALI: [laughing] “Begging”!


AUSTIN: And you hear a… I mean, like, over the radio, basically, a message goes out. Or through kind of like near zone communications. And it is High Captain Will, who is a… She’s a former Excerpt, right? So she’s like very very very old. She’s like ⸢Signet⸣’s age, basically. She’s probably actually older than that. She’s been around since… She’s probably like 800 years old. And looks like a very like… She probably look like in her 50s or 60s, with gray hair that’s kind of like… It’s up in a bun, but there’s like one loose, like dangling thread of it in front of her eyes. She has like… she’s missing an eye, she has an eye patch. She has on like a herringbone coat, like a long herringbone coat, that’s why it’s called the Herringbone Flotilla. Probably, it’s either that or they use the herringbone formation a lot. Or both of those things, probably. I mean, she has… 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Or they wear herringbone coats because they use the herringbone formation…


AUSTIN: Yes, it’s hard to say which came first, right? [KEITH: Yep.] And… So, she has that on, she has like black gloves on, like leather, black leather gloves, and she has like Owen Wilson style broken nose that’s healed, you know? She’s clearly been in a number of scraps, and then like her… She has like a long naval uniform, like a naval coat underneath this… The herringbone coat wear like over her shoulders like a cape basically, and then underneath is like a full admiral’s outfit. And the like… an image of her… I bet you have some sort of a cool image display that is not just a TV or s screen. Again, I like a lot of… We’re doing a lot of like gas emitter that then gets a projector on it type hologram system. So, she appears and announces to everyone nearby that there’s a bounty on the head of Absolute Territory… Or, you know what, I think, I think she doesn’t want to give that away, so what she says— She shows a picture of you, Territory, but she says, 


AUSTIN (as Will): ...on Conditional Sky who is in the captivity of one Captain Flashback, Half Past the Minute Hand, and the crew of the Yellow Flag. 


AUSTIN: And like offers an ex— a completely exorbitant amount of money. And y’all are now wanted criminals in the kind of like near field area. So like, what I’m gonna say basically everywhere between—make a shape, please...—I think kind of like this zone? Everybody in this zone now knows that you are… This is a combination of like how far they could transmit, but also how far word travels in the next like day, that the Herringbone Flotilla will pay a lot of money for your return. In fact, I think that they frame it as a rescue, not as a… In fact, I think what they frame that as is like Captain Flashback, and Half Past, and the Yellow Flag kidnapped you. Because they have lots of images of Territory just like working on their ships, and like being a citizen of Brighton, [ALI chuckles] being a member of the Rogue Wave for a year. So they flash all those images. So that is, that is what happens when you’re halfway on your way to this Advent facility. What do you do? Do you just keep on going heads first? 


KEITH: I mean, we’re gonna run out of fuel, right? [ALI sighs] 


AUSTIN: Yes. 


ALI: We are. 


KEITH: Yeah, so yes. 


DRE: Is there like..? Can we like..? Does fuel work where we can like fucking like yphon it out of this asteroid field or something? 


AUSTIN: I… You know, probably. But I think that the risk there would be being seen, right? I think there’s risk both of these ways. There’s risk… It’s gonna be risky being seen in either direction, the question is like, do you wanna try to syphon it out of like mineral-rich asteroids here? Do you wanna go like buy it at Advent? Or steal it from Advent, or exchange something from Advent? [DRE: Hm.] Both of those have risks. 


KEITH: If there’s anything I know how to do it’s blend in. 


ALI: I just wanna say, yes, I do have the traits Deception, Sneak, Hide, Camouflage, Forgery.


AUSTIN: Okay.


DRE: Ooh. 


AUSTIN: That’s a lot of stuff. [ALI laughs.] 


DRE (as Half Past): Are we gonna steal this shit? 


ALI (as Flashback): We could steal it, we could just go to Advent disguised… We could be sneaky sneaks… 


DRE (as Half Past): ...I kinda want to steal it. 


ALI (as Flashback): [laughing a bit] Do you? Would you like to steal it, my good friend? 


DRE (as Half Past): Yeah, I do, I would. 


ALI (as Flashback): Okay. 


AUSTIN: Alright, take a Key of Greed. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I’ll… If it’s a money issue, I can pay. 


AUSTIN: Actually, sorry, you can’t Key of Greed this, because you haven’t actually stolen it yet. But once you do… [ALI giggles] 


DRE: Oh yeah, don’t worry. 


AUSTIN: Actually, I think… 


ALI (as Flashback): [crosstalk] You don’t have to pay, that’s so generous of you. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I can pay, I have the… 


ALI (as Flashback): It’s more of a don’t want… ‘Cause it’s like a… They’re probably tracking all of your credits. You don’t need to use your cards. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): No, I have cash. 


DRE (as Half Past): We have an agreement with a lot of the systems.


KEITH: I’ll dump out some metal in my pockets. 


AUSTIN: Just on the floor? 


KEITH: Onto the hammock. 


AUSTIN: Oh, you are having this conversation in the bedroom while you’re in the hammock? Oh my God… 


KEITH: Yes, it’s in the morning…


AUSTIN: Okay. Good. You haven’t gotten out of the hammock, great. Do you have pajamas? [ALI bursts out laughing] 


KEITH: I have like very traditional Earth pajamas. 


AUSTIN: Oh, okay, weird. 


ALI: [incredulously] Do you?


KEITH: It’s blue… Yeah, it’s blue…


ALI: Are they mine? 


KEITH: No, it’s blue…


ALI: I’m from the Earth, I just want saying. 


KEITH: Oh, no, I didn’t take your traditional Earth… [AUSTIN: [crosstalking] These are…] No, these are traditional traditional, sorry. Misunderstood. This is… it’s sort of like a blue, it’s sort of like, sort of like the blue scrub fabric with the cap. [AUSTIN: Yeah.] I’m wearing the don’t wake daddy. [DRE and ALI laugh] 


AUSTIN: Does it have that, does it have that embroidered? Does it say “Don’t wake Daddy?” 


KEITH: No, it says “A.T.”


AUSTIN: Okay. 


KEITH: It’s embroidered with “A.T.”


AUSTIN: God…


DRE: Uh, I’m knocking on the door again. 


KEITH: Oh, I thought you were here. 


ALI: Yeah, you’re in the scene. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I thought Dre was here— I think Half Past is in the scene already, sorry.


DRE: Oh… 


KEITH: Yeah, yeah, the… There was a meeting, and we—


DRE: Hold on, I need to reenter the scene in a very special way. 


AUSTIN: Okay, go ahead. 


KEITH: Okay, here’s the, here’s... what I pictured was like, someone was like “Hey, we’re going to have a meeting about this”, and I was like “Okay, you can come in!” [AUSTIN laughs] 


AUSTIN: How are you coming in, Half Past? 


DRE: I come in carrying a tray of food, and I say: 


DRE (as Half Past): Oh, Captain, as you requested, here is Absolute Territory’s breakfast in bed service. 


AUSTIN: [laughing in the background] Oh my Goddd…. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): This is too much. 


ALI (as Flashback): Thank you for… doing as I requested. Absolute, I hope that you enjoy it.


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I do, Eggs Benedict is my favorite. 


AUSTIN: Is that what’s there? Did you get Eggs Benedict, happened to have..? 


DRE: Yeah, of course yes! I’ve got that. 


ALI: Yes, we’re a full on yacht, please. [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: Very important. Oh my God. 


ALI (as Flashback): I just thought, you know… I don’t know that you’re used to the… the life. I just wanted you to be comfortable here. Um… But we do need fuel. A little bit of an issue, a little bit of an emergency, I apologize for this. But I have a plan. I’m the commander and the captain of this ship, it’s all taken care of. Me, and whoever would like to come—you are welcome to, Half Past obviously will be there—can sneak on to the Advent ship and... get the fuel. We can get it. We’ll just get it. 


AUSTIN: No big deal. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): If you need like a… I can, I can buy it. 


ALI (as Flashback): Oh, by all means, Oh that’s so kind of you, but really… 


DRE (as Half Past): Oh no, no, we have an arrangement with pretty much all of the systems…


ALI (as Flashback): Mhm. 


DRE (as Half Past): ...and the arrangement is that we just steal it. [AUSTIN laughs] 


ALI (as Flashback): That’s the arrangement. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Okay. 


AUSTIN: That’s not wrong. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I guess we’re already wanted. 


AUSTIN: Also accurate. Okay… 


DRE (as Half Past): Also, you’re gonna need that money whenever you, you know, you go… whenever you become, you know, royal and stuff. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Oh… [laughing a bit] Yes, I will need to add to my cofers. 


AUSTIN: God… Okay. 


DRE (as Half Past): Well, you know, maybe like, maybe before you become royal you’ll wanna take somebody out on like a thank you dinner or something. 


ALI (as Flashback): This guy loves blooming onions, by the way. [AUSTIN and KEITH laughs]


DRE (as Half Past): Well, I won’t be able to make it, but…


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): Oh, do you want me to take you out for a bloomin’? 


DRE (as Half Past): No, I won’t be able to make it, but I… You know. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): You don’t go for it? We can go for a bloomin’. 


DRE (as Half Past): I really appreciate it. But you know who loves the blooming onion even more is the Captain— Oh, I’m getting a message! Something’s gone wrong with the engines, I gotta go! 


ALI (as Flashback): You sure? You don’t want to agree to it now, and then cancel it later? 


DRE (as Half Past): No, I gotta go, and y’all should talk about blooming onions. Byeeee! 


AUSTIN: God… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory): I feel like the topic’s been thoroughly explored. 


AUSTIN: Yeah! [ALI laughs] Okay. Hard cut again. You’re in like the… So, the ship kind of, I imagine it like docks to the side of this big Advent’s station or whatever. So let me tell you what this is. This is the Catapult that sends stuff from inside the Mirage back out to where Advent’s like actual HQ is, which is outside of the Mirage. Like, Advent, Advent Discovery & Salvage Society is a… Like, it’s a Society first and foremost, right? It’s like a guild or like a gentlemen’s club, you know what I mean? Like, it’s like people wear fucking fancy smoking jackets and shit. 


ALI: Oh yes, please. 


AUSTIN: It’s shitty. Like, they’re the richest, bougiest assholes, and their headquarters is outside of the Mirage. And this is like the local chapter, this is like “Oh yes, did you hear of the Mirage? The greatest adventure could be had there…” It’s like very Around the World in 80 Days type like orientalist, like, exotisizing bullshit. And that’s them. And this is like... when they go in, they send in their treasure hunters, they don’t have a way to get out as people on their ships. They only have this giant super catapult, that I imagine is like… Picture the Golden Gate Bridge, or picture a bridge and then, like with like big tall towers, and then remove the road and replace it with just like crackling energy like bouncing between the two, you know what I mean? Just like lightning between the two. And it like, it basically is a giant rail gun that shoots stuff from inside the Mirage out. And so… So that’s here, and there’s also the receiving area for new Advent stuff to come in. And so there is like basically a... they’ve made part of the Mirage super dense, to where it is so dense that it slows down incoming ships and kind of guides them. Think of it like a big bed of feathers, but the feathers is the Twilight Mirage, and that slows incoming ships from outside the Mirage. So, that is what it is. It’s kind of like built into the side of a gigantic asteroid. Or like it was originally that and they’ve transformed it into this, this structure. And… But it is like done up in this very Advent way on the inside. Or like even the outside I think, right? I think everything is polished, polished brass, you know, red carpets, lots of like… Inside lots of people smoking, lots of people like dressed to the nines. 


AUSTIN: So, how do you..? What do you do? Are you just like landing like a regular-ass ship? Are you landing and then sneaking on board? What are you doing? 


ALI: Oh my God, can we please be dressed up fancy? Please? 


AUSTIN: Is the ship..? Okay, so here’s my thing. They put out word of what this ship looked like. Do you somehow disguise the ship too? 


ALI: Fair. It does change color… [AUSTIN: Yeah.] I wonder if I could like put up like a, like a different color in like a weird pattern or whatever. So it’s like “Oh, that a Blue…” Looks like a different random ship. 


AUSTIN: Looks like the Yellow Flag but a Blue Banner, or whatever? Yeah. 


ALI: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Yes, sure. I think that that’s probably a roll. I think that the thing you’re describing is some sort of roll. 


ALI: Okay. 


AUSTIN: I think it’s an easy roll, ‘cause it’s a thing you’re establishing, it’s a two difficulty. 


ALI: Okay. I was gonna ask if Dre wanted to do this as like a command to sort of thing, as a… 


AUSTIN: Sure. 


DRE: Sure… 


AUSTIN: What’s that… Tell me how you tell him to do it. 


ALI: Um… I mean, I think if it’s… If we have this relationship, and if it’s something that we’ve done before, I think it’s like the sort of like,


ALI (as Flashback): Okay, go to the head of the ship, we’re gonna do Disguise 37. We haven’t done that one for a while. And then you have to dress really nice. Like really nice. 


DRE: Okay. 


AUSTIN: Okay. So, is this… Mechanic, probably? 


DRE: I guess so? Okay… 


AUSTIN: You might me worse at this than…


ALI: Oh, really? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, like almost certainly. 


DRE: Hold on. Hold on. I could probably bullshit some things here. So. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


DRE: I’m gonna say Spare Parts, [AUSTIN: Sure.] and what I’ve done is I’ve taken from inside the ship, and like put it on the outside of the ship, to like change its… its thing. 


ALI: Sure. 


KEITH: Its silhouette? 


DRE: Yeah. 


ALI: Yeah. 


DRE: And I guess… Can I count Repair for that, ‘cause I’m like putting this stuff together? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I think I’m gonna let that swing. That’s 3. That’s 3. 


ALI: You get one from me. 


AUSTIN: And that’s 4. 

DRE: Okay. 


AUSTIN: Four, and you need 2 successes. 


KEITH: [crosstalk] And you need two. And you’ve got 7, 7 dice in your pool. 


DRE: Yeah, I’m trying to figure out if there’s a way that I can like swing Efficiency or Engines into this. But I don’t… 


ALI: I feel like… Oh, Engines… Efficiency is definitely the thing,


KEITH: I feel like Efficiency is the thing. 


ALI: ‘cause it’s me being like, “I know you know how to do this”, right? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I think maybe the use of the Spare Parts is weirdly an example of Efficiency in this case, right? [DRE: Mhm.] Like, you’re not building new stuff to attach, you’re literally just like, as Okrag says, making it look all steampunky so that you fit in… [ALI giggles] 
[02:00:00]


AUSTIN: ...by like attaching a bunch of bullshit spoilers and shit to the outside [DRE: Yeah.] and like big gears and stuff that you aren’t using anymore.


DRE: Those spare parts are definitely made from the beds that I simply don’t have anymore. 


AUSTIN: Right, good, great! Good, you actually got rid of the beds, great! 


DRE: Uh-huh. 


AUSTIN: Good. 


ALI (as Flashback): Did you do that? To my ship? 


DRE (as Half Past): Uh, you… No, I didn’t do anything, see? They took those beds! You don’t know about this, it’s fine. 


AUSTIN: So, that’s 5, right? Mechanic, Repair, and… uh, Repair. Mechanic, Repair, Efficiency, Spare Parts, plus the help from Flashback. 


DRE: And what is the difficulty on this? 


AUSTIN: 2. 


DRE: I’m gonna take one more from my pool, and that’ll give me 6. 


AUSTIN: Sounds good. Give me that. 


DRE: Yeah! 


AUSTIN: Three successes, nice work. Alright, yeah. What do you announce the ship as? Like, what’s the… It’s like they ping you and they say, un, you know, 


AUSTIN (as the Advent official): Announce your name and registry.


DRE (as Half Past): [with much aplomb] Uh, this is the Thundering Chime of the Hour Hand. 


AUSTIN (as the Advent official): Is that the name of the ship? 


DRE (as Half Past): Yes. 


AUSTIN (as the Advent official): Okay, we will announce you. Who is the Captain? 


DRE (as Half Past): [again with much aplomb] It is the Thundering Chime of the Minute Hand. 


AUSTIN (as the Advent official): [slightly flustered] Uh, okay. The Thundering Chime of the Hour Hand captained by the Thundering Chime of the Minute Hand? 


DRE (as Half Past): Indeed! 


AUSTIN: Okay! And so, you come to a stop, you land. And then like as you open the door to leave—I’m gonna need outfits again in a second, so prepare—but you hear like [AUSTIN makes fanfare sounds]


AUSTIN (as the announcer): Now announcing Captain of the Thundering… 


AUSTIN: What was it, Thundering..? 


DRE: Chime of the Hour Hand. 


AUSTIN (as the announcer): ...the Thundering Chime of the Hour Hand, Captain Thundering Chime of the Minute Hand. [AUSTIN makes some more fanfare sounds.] 


AUSTIN: And the three of you walk out. What are y’all wearing? 


DRE: I’m definitely still wearing that purple leather coat. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Same color? 


DRE: But now… Same color, yes. But all of my wallet chains now have pocket watches attached to them. 


AUSTIN: Oh my God! There’s like eighteen pocket watches, fuck! 


ALI: Hello! You fit in. Honey, you fit it. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, you don’t even need to go, you just had those on hand! 


DRE: I’ve got a shitty top hat, 


AUSTIN: [under his voice] Oh my God…


DRE: ...Like a vest, and a cummerbund, all of these. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh, good. Flashback? 


ALI: Um, I think… Okay, so I still have that corset on, [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] that like full-torso corset, and I think the reason I wear it is ‘cause it’s like my ship walls in that it’s like leather, and it sticks out a little bit, and those are all secret compartments, and that’s why I need it. 


AUSTIN: I have a question. Are they the same leather? 


ALI: Sure. A different color. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


ALI: A little more brown. [AUSTIN: Okay.] A little more chestnutty, you know? 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh


ALI: Like, a velvet, like dark blue, like almost evening gown. [AUSTIN: Ooh!] Like, yeah, very long tail… Well, long tail pinned up. There we go. [AUSTIN: Okay, long tail, but pinned up, sure.] ‘Cause you know I gotta get out, but I wanna look really nice. [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh.


ALI: Hair up in like a jeweled clasp. And like a matching necklace. 


AUSTIN: Ooh! 


ALI: Yeah. I steal! I’m a pirate. 


AUSTIN: Are you wearing a weapon of any kind on you? Are you wearing like a sword? Or like a..? 


ALI: Would have to be wearing a sword. [ALI laughs.]


AUSTIN: Alright, good. What kind of sword is it? [ALI: Um…] ‘Cause you have… Oh wait, do you have..? Yeah, you have Fencing and Sword, yeah! 


ALI: Yeah, I have Fencing and Sword as well. I think it’s a really nice fencing sword. I think it’s a solid gold fencing sword. 


AUSTIN: Okay, great, good. [ALI laughs quietly] And, and maybe have like a little pistol somewhere hidden away? 


ALI: Yeah, I’ve got, I got these secret compartments, I can pull out anything. 


AUSTIN: Okay, cool. Alright, Conditional Sky, what are you wearing? What do you look like? 


KEITH: I… If I do have to think of new outfit idea...


ALI: Oh, Oh! I also have the dagger. [AUSTIN: Good.] Thank you! 


KEITH: Do I also need a new name for..? 


AUSTIN: Oh God… You can if you want. 


KEITH: ‘Cause Conditional Sky is now wanted… 


AUSTIN: Yes, you’re right. 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: What is your new name? 


KEITH: Um, I need a minute for a name… 


AUSTIN: So then, Flashback... Flashback, do you also have another name? Is this where we bust out the one that we didn’t use ‘cause it’s a regular..? 


ALI: Yes,I am now the True Course. 


AUSTIN: The True Course. God. 


KEITH: So I know what I’m wearing… [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] Okay, I got it. No, I haven’t. I have the whole thing. So, I’m wearing, um, all black sort of dress shoe Vans and a velvet purple tuxedo which then ends in a hoodie hood with the drawstrings pulled and a baseball cap. 


ALI: [laughing] No, you aren’t! 


AUSTIN: I can’t… 


KEITH: And the name is Adobe Sunset. 


ALI: Keith knew that I have to like be in love with this character, and is testing me very much. 


AUSTIN: [typing] “aka Adobe Sunset”… This is amazing. 


ALI: [highly offended] A hoodie hood?!


KEITH: Yeah, it’s high fashion! Austin said high fashion! 


ALI: Listen… 


AUSTIN: I’m so mad. 


ALI (as Flashback / True Course): That looks amazing. Oh, we’re both wearing velvet. [An incredibly forced laugh.] [AUSTIN laughs] 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Oh, is that velvet? 


AUSTIN: Oh my God! Okay. 


DRE: [in a very cartoonish voice] Oy-ey-eyeyyy! [ALI laughs] 


KEITH: Oh my God… 


AUSTIN: Alright. 


AUSTIN (as the announcer): Now announcing, captain of the Thundering Chime of the Hour Hand, Captain Thundering Chime of the Minute Hand, and his mates, True Course and Adobe Sunset... ™. [They all laugh]


AUSTIN: And, and you’re escorted… There’s just like… a collection of like photographers here. They’re not like paparazzi, but they’re like… they’re like paid photographers from Advent who are like meant to be documenting everything to show all of the great like things that they find and, and all of like the… for the annals, you know. Just so that way everyone knows how cool they are forever. So, you get your photos taken like it’s prom night...


KEITH: Yeah. This is a room full of people who are always in newspapers and for no reason. 


AUSTIN: Right! Exactly, 100%. And as you arrive, like, you kind of step through the… I mean like, so here’s the fucked up thing is, I think they’re just gonna refill your ship now? But you’re expected to go do shit while that’s happening, do you know what I mean? [Quiet laughter in the background] 


KEITH: Yeah. We have to be… We have to be fancy. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Yes. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): I hate… I hate these guys.


AUSTIN: Uh-huh, they are the worst. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): I don’t understand why they can’t be like… I feel like it’s not hard to be down to earth. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. But it’s so fun to not be, is this their problem. 


KEITH: Oh sorry, I’m Adobe Sunset. 


AUSTIN: Oh! Okay, sorry. 


KEITH: Adobe Sunset is… Sorry, I am Absolute Territory speaking out of disguise to Flashback and… the clock pirate… [DRE laughs] about how down to earth I am, and why these guys can’t be more like me. 


AUSTIN: Great. Uh, the… 


ALI (as Flashback / True Course): You’ve got a point. 


AUSTIN: The… As you arrive there’s another kind of dockmaster here, who is like… 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): So, have you brought anything to ship back? What’s the, what’s the haul today? 


DRE (as Half Past / Thundering Chime): Ah, you will have to ask my first mate! 


AUSTIN: [under his breath] Oh my God. 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): Which… Which of the two of them is that? 


DRE (as Half Past / Thundering Chime): Um, that would be the first mate True Course. 


ALI (as Flashback / True Course): Right, yes, by all means. Today’s haul, yes. Um… We… [ALI laughs] There’s treasure everywhere. [ALI laughs some more] And… 


ALI: Wait, I’m gonna look at my skills really quickly. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh, fair. 


ALI: I wanna… I like treasure as well is the thing, and I don’t wanna give any of mine out.


AUSTIN: Fair. 


KEITH: I think we can get out of this without giving them anything. 


ALI: Yeah, I also do, I’m just thinking of my… 


KEITH: And I know… I know what rich people like if you need a hint. 


ALI: Okay. ‘Cause I have… The stuff that I’m looking at right now is that I have Haggle and Forgery if I wanted to give them a fake thing.


AUSTIN: Oh, that’s pretty good.


ALI: But I also have like Deception, or all of those mean ones if we wanted to be like “Well, we’ve been on the heavy seas” and meh-meh-meh, you know? 


AUSTIN: Right. 


DRE: Wait, does this person know who we are? 


AUSTIN: No, but like the thing that happens is time is bad here, right? Time is weird. So sometimes like, oh yeah, new Advent people show up all the time to come, like… Advent is like this big league of adventurers across the Galaxy, [DRE: Oh, okay. Alright, yeah.] so like they don’t know all the members, it’s not like it’s like 30 people, you know? It’s like thousands of members across the Galaxy who are all treasure hunters, and so new ones arrive and then go in, find something and like, fill, you know… Ship it back, once they get a certain quota, they’re able to like go back in certain… in like a weird catapult-like vessel. [DRE: Okay.] They get catapulted back in… It’s almost like the thing that… that the Notion did in the last episode with crates except on purpose. Like they get in special shipping containers that ship them back out into the rest of the Galaxy. So yeah. So, they don’t know who you are but the assume that you are members of the Advent. You, you certainly look the part. 


DRE: And this is like a weird… us doing the part of the pyramid scheme where we kick our stuff up the pyramid? 


AUSTIN: Yes. 


DRE: Okay. 


AUSTIN: There’s like a certain expectation which is like, well, if you’re landing at the, at the, you know, at the Catapult, it’s ‘cause you’re dropping something off. 


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: Okay.


AUSTIN: Or that you have something else coming soon, do you know what I mean? 


ALI: Okay. Um, yeah, Keith, I mean I don’t know, if you have a stronger idea in terms of…


KEITH: I have a very good idea…


ALI: Okay. 


KEITH: ...for—and I’m assuming I’ll have to roll, and for that I would like to use Noble, Etiquette, Educated, Science, Wealth, and Connections. 


AUSTIN: Okay, what are you doing? 


ALI: Oh boy! Okay. 


KEITH: Noble, Etiquette, Educated, Science, Wealth, and Connections. That’s 6. 


AUSTIN: What’s the bit? What’s the thing you’re gonna try to convince people of? 


KEITH: We’ve mined… we’ve mined ethers. 


AUSTIN: Oh! What is the ether contained in?


KEITH: We’ve mined ethers from the asteroids. 


AUSTIN: Well, what is the ether contained in? 


KEITH: Phylacteries. 


AUSTIN: So you’re gonna give them… Are you giving them fake like empty something? 


KEITH: I think that we are like “We’ll unload it later.” 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


ALI: No, okay, now… 


KEITH: I mean, we can give them fake stuff.


AUSTIN: What’s Ali… What... Ali, what’s your..? 


ALI: I’m going to assist you here by giving them my flask. 


AUSTIN: Oh my God. 


ALI: Which just alcohol in, and they don’t know that.


AUSTIN: Right. And you’re like “It’s very dangerous, you can’t open it”? 


ALI: Yeah. Please be careful with it. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): This is… this is unrefined. 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): Pure ether, you say? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): This is pure ether. 


AUSTIN: Give me a roll. 


KEITH: Um, what’s the difficulty? 


AUSTIN: This is a 3. 


KEITH: A 3? 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 

KEITH: So, I start with 6… 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Plus the one from… 


ALI: 7 from me. 


AUSTIN: ...from Flashback. 


KEITH: +1, so I start with 7. 


AUSTIN: Yeah.


KEITH: So I’ll use another 2. So I’m up to 9. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Okay. Someone is, people in the chat are saying “but what about cursed dagger?” I don’t think she’s ever gonna give up that dagger. 


ALI: Oh my God. Please! I’m not giving that away! 


KEITH: Okay, I can just roll. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. What was it? I said 3, right? 


KEITH: Number on dice: 9… Yeah, you said 3. 


AUSTIN: Okay.


KEITH: 5. 


AUSTIN: 5, you crushed it. Okay. 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: The, the quartermaster, the dockmaster just like takes it very carefully from your hands, and is like


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): Pure ether…


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): These people love party inhalants. That’s all, that is like the richest person drug is party inhalant.


AUSTIN: He goes to like open, and then like… And then… 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Do not open that! 


ALI (as Flashback / True Course): Do not! 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): [very chastised] Oh… Okay… 


DRE (as Half Past / Thundering Chime): Sir! Are you trying to release the thick, the thick clouds before they’re ready for consumption? 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): No-no-no!


ALI (as Flashback / True Course): Do you intend to kill everyone here? 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): No-no-no!


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Are you going to waste the ether?! 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): No, I just, I just… Pardon… 


DRE (as Half Past / Thundering Chime): Are you going to take it for yourself? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Are you mad?! 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): I’m so sorry! I’m so… 


ALI (as Flashback / True Course): He’s mad, yes. 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): Okay, that’s…


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): You’ve been warned twice. 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): Okay. I’ll just… 


AUSTIN: And he like puts a big… Like, stamps it with like a thing that says like “RECEIVED”, and then like puts it in a pneumatic tube that goes “Hoot!” and it gets pneumatic tubed away. [AUSTIN laughs a bit.] 


AUSTIN (as the dockmaster): I’m so sorry. Please, lease, please. The dinner will be prepared shortly. Do inside, take a drink, uh, say hello to the rest of everyone. 


AUSTIN: And you walk in and it is like… It is… I was gonna say like it’s a very fancy version of the Cantina scene from New Hope, and then I just realised they did that in Last Jedi. 


ALI: Oh, but who cares. It’s garbage! 


AUSTIN: But who cares. It’s that. This is a, again, an intergalactic society, so. You haven’t heard this yet, people listening, but there’s a like straight-up alien shows up in a future episode from Advent. I think the next episode, there’s straight up an Advent fucking alien just like… Boom, like this is not a human in any way. And so that’s what this whole place is, right? So feel free at any point to describe anyone in here any way you want, there are lots of aliens here. There are like, big aliens who walk around on very like thin branch-like legs, that’s like what if a branch but...


KEITH: There’s an ent here? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, there’s an ent here 100%. There are like big mosquito people here in fancy suits and top hats. There’s definitely like a person who is like just a big ball of jelly who like rolls around. [DRE laughs.] But like inside of the ball of jelly is just really fancy shit. You know, there’s like a cane in there. [DRE snorts] Like a fancy one. 


KEITH: So it’s a… It is a being suspended in jelly, not a being made of jelly? 


AUSTIN: No, no, no. It’s the latter. It’s the former, rather, it’s a being made of jelly. 


ALI: But he, you know, still accessorizes. 


AUSTIN: Still accessorizes, a 100%. 


KEITH: Oh, and like his cane is in… in himself. 


AUSTIN: Yes. Yeah, a 100%, chat, there are catboys here, catgirls here. All sorts of anthropomorphic people of all sorts and sizes, and, and… Like, there’s the whole range of catboy. Do you know what I mean? You got from like “Oh, that boy has cat ears!” to like “Oh, that’s a tiger what stands on its back legs!” [ALI laughs] 


ALI: [in a very high voice] This is making me… 


KEITH: Is the tiger… is it like a tiger-centaur, it’s half-horse, half-tiger? 


AUSTIN: Yes, of course! Of course. 
[02:15:00]


AUSTIN: And, again, is like just holding a big giant gear. Just holding it. [They all laugh] 


KEITH: “This is what I brought, I brought a gear! They let me in, and I brought a gear.”


AUSTIN: This is my gear, yeah. Exactly. 


KEITH: “This is my gear.” [Everyone giggles]


ALI: I want to very quickly pull out a second flask, and wink to Half Past and Absolute, mostly Absolute, and be like. 


ALI (as Flashback): Just in case you want to actually celebrate later. 


ALI: And then slip it away again. [AUSTIN laughs] 


AUSTIN: Perfect! 


KEITH: Here’s what I want. I want like some of the catboys to be like shining laser pointers for the other catboys. [ALI laughs] And like that’s their ether. 


ALI: So it’s like a pleasure dome. [KEITH laughs] 


AUSTIN: I… Okay, so what it is it’s like… I think that’s happening, but it’s just like they are all around like a… They’re all in smoking jackets and they’re sitting around a single table, and they’re just like very dis… 


KEITH: Very lazy. 


AUSTIN: …very lazy, very disinterested... Have their hand on their, their cheeks, you know, on their chins, but are holding a laser pointer in that hand, pointing lasers at the table in front of them, and then like with, you know, each others other hands are like very lazily swatting at the laser pointers… [ALI giggles gleefully] 


KEITH: They love it! [clapping] 


AUSTIN: Like “Yes… yes… Mhm… I see.” 


ALI: “Why don’t you come here…” 


KEITH: “We love light.” 


AUSTIN: Yep, uh-huh. God… Um, it’s very good. Terrible, it’s terrible, these people suck!


DRE: Austin. 


AUSTIN: Yes? 


DRE: Austin! I gotta rob that jelly man. 


AUSTIN: Oh my God! [KEITH laughs] How are you gonna do that? 


KEITH: Why?!


ALI: This is the best night of my life. [AUSTIN laughs] 


AUSTIN: How are you gonna do that? 

DRE: I mean… First, to answer Keith’s question—why. Because I’ve pickpocketed from like regular pockets, [AUSTIN: Right.] I’ve never pocketed from a jelly creature. 


AUSTIN: Creature— 


KEITH: You’ve never, you’ve never reached into someone’s skin and taken all they’ve got? 


AUSTIN: [weakly] Oh my God…


DRE: Yeah, yeah, you gotta test yourself. Uh, how… Hm, that’s a good question. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, it is! 


KEITH: Fishing line. [AUSTIN gasps] 


AUSTIN: Fishing line isn’t bad. 


DRE: That’s not bad. 


AUSTIN: Do you like set up above and just like wait for them to like roll past, and then just like drop the fishing hook down in here and pull it out real quick? [DRE laughs very hard] 


DRE: Yes, ‘cause that is the worst idea, and so—yes. 


ALI: Oh… 


KEITH: And I bet like a bunch of people saw it and just didn’t give shit. 


AUSTIN: I don’t know, we’ll see how the roll goes. 


DRE: No, I think it’s… I do do a fishing line, but it’s like in passing, as I like, I like pick a time where there’s like not a lot of space between me and the jelly man and like a wall or another person. 


AUSTIN: Yeah… 


DRE: And I exclaim like 


DRE (as Half Past / Thundering Chime): Excuse me, pardon me, excuse me, pardon me! 


DRE: And as I’m doing that I like, basically like palm the fishing line out of my pocket into this jelly man. 


AUSTIN: Oh my God. And what do you go for? The cane? Just anything you can get in there. 


DRE: Yeah. 


KEITH: Oh my God, it’s a fucking UFO catcher. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh.


DRE: Basically. 


AUSTIN: Good. 


DRE: Inside of this creature’s body. 


KEITH: Inside of a creature. 


AUSTIN: Alright, so this is Burglar, Quiet, Sneak, Hide…


DRE: Dextrous? 


AUSTIN: Dextrous…


DRE: Perceptive, ‘cause I gotta look in there. 


AUSTIN: Perceptive… Perceptive. I don’t think it’s a Trap. 


DRE: Yeah, it’s probably not. 


AUSTIN: I don’t think. And you didn’t make it dark, [DRE: Nope.] so it can’t use Darkness. [DRE chuckles] But the thing to think about in the future, honestly. So what is that, one, two, three, four, five? Six. Six just from your traits and tags. Uh, this is a 3. This is a 3. Also take two xp for this. This is, this is one of your… It’s either two xp, or you can add to your pool. This is your Key putting you in danger for sure. 


DRE: Okay. I’m gonna take 2 from my pool as well to put this at 8.


AUSTIN: Okay, sounds good. 


KEITH: Ghost says: “Isn’t this a Sonic Adventure 1 boss fight?” [ALI giggles] Yeah, that is that. It absolutely is. 


AUSTIN: Yep, it is. 


DRE: How many do I need, three? 


AUSTIN: Three. 


ALI: Is Big the Cat in here? 


AUSTIN: Big the Cat is here.


DRE: Fuck! 


AUSTIN: Oh my God! 


DRE: God!


AUSTIN: You really got a 2. Oh my God. 


DRE: Look at all those 3s! 


KEITH: [slowly] Oh wow. 


AUSTIN: Look at all those 3s. 


[Collective sounds of woe]


AUSTIN: Your hook like, catches the… Okay, here’s what happens, your hook catches the cane, and then the cane like shakes the other direction, and then turns straight up like horizontally, and you realize that it’s not… that’s not a cane, that’s like its face, that’s like its eye, [DRE: Oh wow!] that’s like a big single eye, it’s like made of like hard marble or something. And your hook just breaks off, and it looks right at you, and it goes


AUSTIN (as the jelly man): Bruagh-xcuse me! [ALI snorts] Mmmwhot are you dooing? 


[KEITH makes incredible gurgling noises] [DRE laughs] 


ALI: Folly time of the night. Perfecto! 


DRE: Okay, so here’s what I’m gonna do. I’m gonna use this line… 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Oh, oh, oh, sorry, I’m gonna give you a condition on this, [DRE: Mhm.] which is, I think that you’re tra- I think that you’re trapped, currently. 


DRE: Yeah, that would make sense. 


AUSTIN: It just like cornered you immediately. And everyone’s just like “Whooa!” and they’re kinda like making room around you but like it’s just you and this jelly man, whose name… Gonna need a good name here… 


DRE: Is there a way to modify this… the tags? 


AUSTIN: How so? 


DRE: Like ‘cause I wanna level up and take one of my bracketed tags.


AUSTIN: Oh yeah, I got you, which one do you wanna take? 


DRE: I’m gonna take Acrobatics, in Tricky. 


AUSTIN: I got you. 


ALI: I don’t wanna, I don’t wanna interrupt this, if you just wanna have this sit you can, but, Dre, you can reroll this. 


AUSTIN: Oh, true! 


ALI: Like, one of my Secrets… 


DRE: Ooh!..


AUSTIN: Or with… Dre also has a, they both have Secrets, right? 


DRE: Oh yeah! Secret of Reflexes! For sure! 


AUSTIN: Yes. I always have...


ALI: [laughing a bit] I have…


AUSTIN: Go ahead. 


ALI: I have the Secret of Leadership, and I can make you do better by setting a good example, which means you can catch me out of the corner of your eye successfully stealing from someone. [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: Oh my God. This crew… 


ALI: And being like “I got this all wrong. Wait.” 


DRE: Alright. I love that, I love that. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Give me the reroll. Give me the reroll. 


DRE: Do I just do the same amount? 


AUSTIN: Same roll, yeah. 


DRE: Okay, alright. 


ALI: It’s eyes… [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: What are you stealing? What are you stealing, Flashback? 


ALI: I, um, I… Okay, wait. I… No. I was gonna say the most ridiculous thing which means I have to say it now. 

AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


ALI: But… Um… [ALI laughs a bit] Can a steal a collar from one of the catboys? [DRE snickers] 


AUSTIN: Oh my God… How are you doing that? Are you just like...


ALI: It was the first thing that came to mind… 


AUSTIN: Are you just like standing next to them…


ALI: [crosstalk] They are distracted, they’re clearly distracted. 


AUSTIN: ...and you just unbuckle it from the back of… unhook it from the back of the neck and just liiiift? 


ALI: Yeah, just very… Just one… [AUSTIN: Okay.] It’s like one of the bow ones, I just pull the ribbon and it slips off, and I put it into my pushed out pocket. [ALI laughs] It’s timing. I’ll sell it off. 


KEITH: What level of cat was this catboy? 


ALI: What? 


KEITH: What… what gradient of cat? 


ALI: Oh, it’s the tiger in the Supreme C T-shirt... 


AUSTIN: Are you stealing that for Territory or for your? 


KEITH: So this is like a big collar. 


ALI: To have a night out. [ALI bursts out laughing]


AUSTIN: Christ! Good. Good. 


DRE: Man… Yeah, you… You won’t even share a room, but you’re already stealing collars. Okay. Alright. 


ALI: I think that I just wanna sell it…. I think that I just wanna sell it, I don’t wanna make that call. 


DRE: Okay. However you roll.


AUSTIN: Give me… give me the roll. Yeah. 


DRE: Whoa, okay! 


AUSTIN: 3 successes! Alright. 


ALI: Gee… 


AUSTIN: But now… I mean, I’ve already established it’s its eye, so you can’t get that. You have to get something else, right? [ALI laughs] 


DRE: Austin, you know what I want. 


AUSTIN: I don’t know what you want! What do you want? 


DRE: You know he’s got a cool monocle. 


AUSTIN: He does have a cool monocle. [ALI snorts] Like on the cane. 


KEITH: So, you don’t want the eye, you just want the shit that’s on the eye. 


AUSTIN: Oh my God… Yeah, you hook it, and you’re like “Wait… There’s something on…” and you like do a little quick hook… rope… you know, planning to do like “Ah, um, ah! Got it!” And then like the monocle falls, like it gets pulled away, it gets pulled through, like [AUSTIN makes an incredible wet splashing noise], and then like pops out. And then you just have this super long cane-sized monocle. 


DRE: Yeah, no, and in one smooth motion I flip it up into my eye. It’s fine. 


AUSTIN: It’s big! What? You couldn’t…


DRE: Yeah, no. 


AUSTIN: So you just have them… You just have them on like a long pair of sunglasses now? 


DRE: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: ...Okay, I just… I can’t, I can’t, I’m gonna just scroll down, and do like a quick… So, here… I just, we gotta be... Okay, we got… Okay. 


DRE: How big is this thing, what are we talking here? 


AUSTIN: It’s big! It’s big, one second. So. Here’s this blob, right? 


DRE: Okay, sure. Now you’re drawing this. Okay.


AUSTIN: I’m drawing this if you scroll down. Here’s… here’s you, right? There’s you. That’s you. 


DRE: Oh, that is a big blob! 


AUSTIN: Right, it’s a big blob. So there’s a cane that’s like that, and it’s in there, but you’re like “Oh no”, so it’s not, but now what you have is a pair of sunglasses on that goes like that. [ALI laughs] Or a monocle, a single monocle that goes like that. 


DRE: Oh… 


KEITH: This looks more like a window for your hat. 


AUSTIN: And then, just to be clear, also a hat. 
________________


ALI: It’s incredible! 


AUSTIN: Also a hat. It’s big. 


DRE: Here’s a deal. I was gonna say, I was gonna say “Okay though, maybe I wear it like a Flava Flav clock, but then Keith said “You have a window for your hat.”


AUSTIN: Right, yeah. Actually, yes, I’ll make this look like an actual window now, there we go. 


KEITH: Wow… 


DRE: Yeah, now I have window for my face. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh, good. 


KEITH: Wow, this guy must be really rich, he’s build a house for his face! 


AUSTIN: Yeah, uh-huh. 


DRE: Does the glass like flip open off of the frame? 


AUSTIN: Oh yeah, it definitely does a little cool flay. [DRE: Okay.] So I have to add some chains here for you, just like various chains at various parts of your body… 


DRE: Yeah, good thing I have plenty of places to attach this window to. I have many anchor points to the outfit… [DRE laughs] 


AUSTIN: Yeah, and it definitely… You go just “Boop!” and there you go, now it’s hooked up. And immediately this poor being, this blob whose name is Mezzanine with an apostrophe in there somewhere, is like


AUSTIN (as Mezz’anine): Bruagh! Bhhwhere’s my monocle? [DRE laughs] 


AUSTIN: And begins looking around.


AUSTIN (as Mezz’anine): Someone help me find it! 


AUSTIN: And can’t, no one’s finding… No one can find it. Weird. [DRE laughs] Weird. Sorry, you did say 18 pocket watches. [DRE sighs] Okay, one, two, three, four, five… [ALI laughs] six, seven… eight… nine… 


AUSTIN: Ten… Eleven… Twelve… 


KEITH: I… Can the… So, the stream can’t see that what you’re doing is drawing 18 squares on the stick man… [DRE and ALI are completely losing their shit at this point] 


AUSTIN: Thirteen… That was just hanging loose… Moved one over here… Fourteen, fifteen… 


ALI: They’ll have clock hands, if you could just add them. 


KEITH: Some of these are more like socks. 


AUSTIN: This one just stayed… Sixteen… Yes, yes. And then you just have one on just both of your legs. 


DRE: Oh fuck… 


ALI: Awkward. 


AUSTIN: That’s seventeen. 


ALI: Eighteenth is… It’s like a collar clip. 


AUSTIN: Okay, yes, just very tiny. Eighteen. Got it. 


DRE: Oh… Ali, thank you for helping me out while I was indisposed dying. 


ALI: Anytime, friends. 


DRE: [laughing] Thank you. 


AUSTIN: Alright, eighteen clocks! Good. Whew! Wow, yeah, I can’t believe we managed to fit clocks in this game that doesn’t even have any clocks in it! Perfect! 


DRE: I got you. I got you. 


AUSTIN: Thank you, thank you, bud. 


DRE: I know what my GM likes.


AUSTIN: Fuck… What are you, what are you… Hm. Territory, what are you doing during all of this? 


KEITH: Um… [DRE coughs] There’s a really nice buffet. 


AUSTIN: Okay. [ALI laughs] There is. It’s also a buffet but you can’t serve yourself, you get— It’s a buffet, but you…


KEITH: It’s full of like illegal food though.


AUSTIN: Yes. Which is why you can’t serve yourself. 


KEITH: Right. 


AUSTIN: it’s illegal to get that food. It’s not illegal to eat the food if someone else gets it for you. 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: So the way the system works is you sit down, and you… someone comes over and says “What are you having, sir?” and then you have to lean in and whisper what you’re having, and then they go and get it for you, and like sneaky get it, so that no one sees what they get for you. And they bring it back. 


KEITH: It’s… It’s sort of like the fireworks laws where it’s not illegal to have [AUSTIN: Right.] them, but it is illegal to sell them. 


AUSTIN: Exactly. So, so


AUSTIN (as the server): What are you having today, sir? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Uh… Oh boy. There’s just so much. I guess I’ll have… Um… Do you have fries? [KEITH laughs] 


AUSTIN (as the server): Mm, fries! Those are outlawed in seven systems! 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Yeah, do you have them? 


AUSTIN (as the server): Of course. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Rosemary? 


AUSTIN (as the server): Rosemary fries, yes. 


DRE: Damn. Who knew that the Twilight Mirage was like going like total keto. Can’t get French Fries anywhere. 


AUSTIN (as the server): Oh no-no-no. Seven systems in the Galaxy, which is very few. But they’re illegal, so we have them just in case. [KEITH laughs] 


KEITH: Yeah, I tried to think of a better illegal food, but… 


AUSTIN (as the server): Would you like anything else, sir? 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Oh, do you have cumulonimbus? 


AUSTIN (as the server): Cumulonimbus, that’s, um, cloud. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Yeah, cloud harvesting. 


AUSTIN (as the server): Cloud harvesting… Yes, of course, sir, of course. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): How many systems is that illegal in? 


AUSTIN (as the server): Two hundred. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): Oh, that’s better. What’s the most illegal one you have? 


AUSTIN: What is the most illegal food in the Galaxy? I think we’re gonna need to… Alright, pause! I’m gonna break out my Microscope rules ‘cause I think we need to play a lot game to figure out what the most, [ALI laughs] the most illegal food is. ‘Cause I wanna say it’s people, but… I bet it isn’t. 


DRE: It… yeah. 


AUSTIN: I bet it’s… 


KEITH: You think that there’s something more illegal than people? 


AUSTIN: I think it’s probably like... sunlight or something. 


KEITH: Even rich— Yeah, that’s what I was going for with cumulonimbus. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Or it’s ether, ironically. 


KEITH: Yeah. Oh. we brought ether, I don’t need ether. 


AUSTIN (as the server): Pure ether, sir. 


KEITH (as Absolute Territory / Adobe Sunset): You know what? Fuck it. I’ll have some… Yeah, I’ll have some ether. 


AUSTIN (as the server): Of course. Of course, sir. 


AUSTIN: And just leaves, and goes to get you some of that food. And, and, just comes back with… Again, it’s a buffet! You see these like butlers going over to get stuff from the buffet, [KEITH: Yeah.] but you aren’t allowed… It’s like, it’s like velvet roped, but velvet roped in backed getting you food to where you are, not to there. 


KEITH: Mhm. 


AUSTIN: And, and they bring you back all of that food. Um. 


KEITH: Here’s the thing, the cumulonimbus comes in a bowl [AUSTIN: Okay.] ‘cause it has to float in a bowl, [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] and you have to be super careful with it. [AUSTIN: Mhm.] The ether comes on a rag, [AUSTIN: Okay.] but of course it’s like a silk cloth, [ALI: Ah, of course!] a very nice silk cloth, and it’s almost as many threads per inch as my bed sheets. [AUSTIN laughs] And the fries come on a plate. 


AUSTIN: Of course. [KEITH laughs] Do you dip the fries?


KEITH: Oh, in the cumulonimbus? 
[02:30:00]


AUSTIN: [laughing] Yeah! 


KEITH: That’s nice! Yeah. Oh, it’s incredibly airy, so airy! 


AUSTIN: Ah, it sounds so good! Um, go ahead. 


ALI: Can… Can I.... Okay, this is gonna…


KEITH: You can taste the blue skies. 

ALI: I don’t want to cut the scene short, and I don’t wanna do this if this is a little much… 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


ALI: But I would love to be able to roll Deception and Camouflage to order the same exact thing, and make Absolute think that I like know what I’m doing, you know? 


AUSTIN: Oh my God, yeah, uh-huh. 


ALI: Like I can have dinner with him, you know? 


AUSTIN: Yes, yes, totally! Like “Oh wow, funny! The same thing!” 


ALI: Um, and not just like a… I’m very, you know, I know how I come across, like I’m just a pirate… 


AUSTIN: Take two xp… Yeah, take two xp and roll this. What is this? What is this roll? 


KEITH: Yeah. This is very tragic because I ordered it as a joke. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. So, this is Deception? 


ALI: This is Smuggler, Deception, and Camouflage. 


AUSTIN: Okay, yes. Okay, fair. 2, 2 dice, 2 successes is what you need. 


ALI: That’s 3, isn’t it? 


AUSTIN: No, I’m saying 2 is the difficulty. [ALI: Oh, yes.] 2 is the difficulty. 


ALI: Okay. Please fail this. [ALI laughs] No, please don’t! Zero successes! 


AUSTIN: Oh my God! So, what do you… 


DRE: Damn. 


AUSTIN: How does this go wrong? Okay, so I think… I mean, I’ll tell you how this goes wrong. [KEITH and ALI laugh] Or you tell me how this goes wrong, and I’ll tell you what the consequences are. 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Ali orders the fucking… Ali orders like the most heinous foods. Like overhears the exact wrong thing, and just like… the truly heinous shit.


ALI: I get the most illegal food with is the people. No! I… God, maybe. I was gonna say like maybe I just like don’t use the right fork or whatever, but like… 


AUSTIN: No, sorry, I know… I know what’s gonna happen here is that like someone is going to notice who you are.


ALI: Okay. 


AUSTIN: And I wanna go wild. Do you slip out of ascent? Do you like..? Do you… Is it like, 


AUSTIN (as the server): Oh, if you… Just write your name on the slip, of course. 


AUSTIN: Like, it would like… 


AUSTIN (as the server): Take your seat. What is your name, again? 


AUSTIN: And you just say “Flashback”? [ALI laughs] And then… Because you’re hunted now is what’s happening here. Um... 


ALI: Oh! 


AUSTIN: Does that work for you? You failed that roll, that’s a 0. It ain’t good. 


ALI: I guess yeah… I guess I’m so tied up in like oh, you know, I wanna prove to him that Captain Flashback [AUSTIN: Right!] is a sophisticated woman… 


AUSTIN: Right, yeah, exactly that.


ALI: That I blank on the name… [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: Fuck… 


ALI: It’s just like “Oh, right, I’m Flashback.” 


AUSTIN: “I’m Flashback, Captain Flashback. Okay. Flashback.” 


ALI: That’s a f… Oh, that’s a bad screw up. 


AUSTIN: And just like eyes look down, and like 


AUSTIN (as the server): Of… course, ma’am, take a seat. 


AUSTIN: And then like [AUSTIN murmurs] ...And then like bit by bit, I think you see like um… I bet that Half Past is the one who notices it first from like elsewhere in the room. Sees guards start to like smoothly slide into the room and like walk past people. They have like… They have swords at their sides, and they have like, what are very clearly like… You know the… You know in cartoons, and probably in real life, exterminator guns that are like conical, and they feel like they pump, do you know what I mean? Like an exterminator gas gun? 


KEITH: Yeah, yeah-yeah-yeah. Like a pesticide thing? 


AUSTIN: Like a pesticide like gun, you know? Now I’m gonna find this… Like a sprayer, like a pesticide sprayer, but like from a cartoon. 


KEITH: Yeah, yeah! And it’s got, yeah, it’s got a nozzle, I have one and it’s like in green…


DRE: Oh! Yeah-yeah-yeah. 


ALI: Oh, yes-yes-yes, right. 


KEITH: And you just like [tsch-tsch-tsch]!


AUSTIN: Yeah-yeah-yeah, uh-huh. Yeah. [KEITH: Yeah.] So, they roll through and they have those. And they begin to like close in on Flashback and on Absolute Territory. Half Past, what do you do? 


DRE: Hmmm… Okay, um, Austin, can there be a giant chandelier in the middle of this room? 


AUSTIN: Can… No, there can be seven, though. 


DRE: Okay. 


AUSTIN: They’re like in a circular… So yes, there’s a giant one, and then each… that giant one [KEITH: Oh man, I bet…] has like a ring of other ones all around it .


KEITH: I bet your plan isn’t gonna work now. [KEITH and DRE giggle] 


AUSTIN: [laughing a bit] What’s your plan? 


DRE: Uh, I want to… Okay, I want to like jump up and like hang on one of the chandeliers, and make it smash into the one, and then it just keeps smashing into all of them so the lights go out in this room. 


AUSTIN: Oh, okay! Yeah. I think that’s doable. You… Are you afraid they’re gonna like fall and crush people, or are you just going for it? 


DRE: Uh… No, these people suck. Yeah, I don’t care if they fall and crush people. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Good. Great. Um… [ALI laughs] What is this? Let’s see what this is. 


DRE: I think this might… If I’m not worried about like hurting people this night be Tricky and Dirty Fighting. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I think this might be. [DRE: Okay.] I think it might be Tricky, Quick, Dirty Fighting, Tumbler. 


DRE: Probably Acrobatics, right? 


AUSTIN: Oh yeah, you’ve just added Acrobatics, yeah. I’m gonna move that up so I can see it… 


DRE: Okay. 


AUSTIN: ...without it being down there. Boop! Definitely Acrobatics. 


KEITH: I, I put the links to those sprayers in the chat. In the, in the YouTube chat. 


AUSTIN: Thank you. 


KEITH: The second one is better. 


AUSTIN: Wait, did you? In the YouTube chat? 


KEITH: In the YouTube thing, yeah. 


AUSTIN: I’m not seeing it… 


KEITH: Oh, is it ‘cause they’re links and I’m not a mod? 


AUSTIN: Yeah. I think so. 


DRE: Oh. yeah-yeah-yeah. You can’t… 


AUSTIN: I thought I modded you. 


KEITH: You modded the RunButton. [ALI laughs]


AUSTIN: Say something real quick? 


KEITH: Oh, no, I’ll just switch to the RunButton thing. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Well, there you go. 


ALI: [laughing] Okay… 


KEITH: It’s fine, we can do nice, I’ll just add link.


DRE: Will you go ahead and mod me too, Austin, while you’re thinking about this? 


AUSTIN: Yes, totally. Yeah-yeah-yeah, that’s exactly right, that’s exactly what I had in mind. Boom. Like one of those. Big old canisters up front. 

DRE: Oh wow! Fancy. 


AUSTIN: Mhm. But yes… 


KEITH: [crosstalk] I cannot imagine what movie gave me that exact mental image, but…


AUSTIN: I know, I know! [ALI laughs] There we go. Alright, so give me that roll. I think this is a, this is a 3. 


DRE: Austin, you’re also showing you’re uh, looking at a Studio audio proofing panels on the stream right now. 


AUSTIN: No, I think you’re… Are you paused? 


DRE: No. And you just flipped over for me. 


KEITH: [crosstalk] No, you… Oh, you’re okay. 


AUSTIN: Oh, okay. 


DRE: Okay. Uh… So, we did Acrobatics, Quick, Dirty Fighting, Escape? 


AUSTIN: Yeah… Wait, Acrobatics, Quick, Dirty Fighting… Uh, you know what? Maybe both Tumbler and [DRE: Or Tumbler.] Escape, right? 


DRE: Okay. 


AUSTIN: Like, this is about making an exit. So yeah. I think this is about just making dark. You’re not getting out on this alone ‘cause you’re still hunted, [DRE: Right] but like, yes, those are the ones. That’s 5. Wait, it’s actually 6. One, two, three, four, five… Six. 


KEITH: [in the background] Now… 


DRE: Yep. What difficulty is this? 


AUSTIN: I think this is a 3. 


DRE: Okay. I’m gonna roll this… 


KEITH: What status do I get for having just done ether? 


AUSTIN: Oh, fuck! Um… There’s… none of these… none of these are like High as Hell. 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Yeah, none of these sound right. 


DRE: Are you Lost? 


KEITH: I…. It’s eithe— Probably either Lost or Tired. [DRE laughs] 


AUSTIN: I think it’s Tired. I’ll give you Tired. So, the way conditions work is that… When you take a condition, mark its box and say how it comes about. And then just like, we need to make sure that those are… played out, I believe. There’s not like a hard… Like, that’s just true about the world now, do you know what I mean? 


KEITH: Yeah. Yeah. 


AUSTIN: So, go ahead.


DRE: Boof! 


AUSTIN: That’s a 1 success…


DRE: I’m gonna do me Secret of Reflexes to reroll. 


AUSTIN: So you are now gonna use your Secret, okay. Give me that roll, 6d6. ...Ooh, okay! So. 


DRE: Okay. 


KEITH: Am I… Am I being looked for? 


AUSTIN: No, remember… the… Flashback is the… You’re supposed to be recovered, but I don’t think anyone’s noticed you yet. Captain Flashback wrote “My name is Captain Flashback” on a piece of paper. [ALI laughs] Um, so I think you… I think you get injured doing this, Half Past. I think you manage to pull them down, and you’ll get all of them, but you get like… In fact I think what happens is you slam most of them down, but the emergency flashing lights come on, and it’s just like flashing like orange. And everyone’s like “AAAAH!”, and everyone’s running, and everyone’s like trying to… Everyone’s very scared, but like you, you are now hurt also from the fall. You get caught on some of the… the… You fall and some of the chandeliers catches you in the leg, so you’re limping now. Um… What are you doing, Flashback? Flashback and Territory. 


ALI: Um… 


KEITH: How many people are… are… gone in for them? 


AUSTIN: So there are like five guards coming in right now, but the alarm is going off, which means more people will be coming soon. And also will probably be like trying to get to your ship. 


KEITH: Okay. I’m going to go to the ship. 


AUSTIN: Okay, so you’re just like sprinting out the door, basically? [ALI chuckles] 


KEITH: I’m gonna be like cool about it. Unless other people— Are other people running? Are people like “Aah, guards are doing something!” 


AUSTIN: I mean, everybody in this place is like screaming and yelling once those… once those chandeliers came down, and the alarm went off, like…


KEITH: Okay, so yeah, I’m running, I’m running, and I think I’ll blend in pretty easily. 


AUSTIN: Oh yeah? What are you gonna do to do that? To blend in? 


KEITH: Um… Well, I just like… herd immunity.  


AUSTIN: Exc… exc… Okay. But what are you rolling? To get to go out without being seen? 


KEITH: Oh, I’m rolling? Okay. [ALI chuckles] Um… Hm… [AUSTIN laughs a bit] Let’s see, Cunning, Deception, Misdirection, Disguise.


AUSTIN: Yeah, I think those are the ones. That’s 4. 


KEITH: Yeah.


AUSTIN: And this is a 2, this is a 2 difficulty, I think. 


KEITH: Okay. 


AUSTIN: JetSnacker says: “The sentence “We are the worst criminals” has been said on this show, and I think everything since has been an attempt to make worse criminals.” [ALI laughs] 


DRE: Accurate. 


ALI: We’re pirates. [AUSTIN: That’s true.] Pirates are different than criminals and… [AUSTIN: Um….] 


KEITH: I’m rolling 6, by the way, I took 2 from my pool. 


ALI: In terms of fashion. 


AUSTIN: Two from the pool, uh-huh. 


KEITH: Uh, you know what? I only… No. I’m hoping for a chance. That’s stupid.


AUSTIN: Okay. 


KEITH: 3! I got 3. 


AUSTIN: 3 successes! Whew, close one. 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Alright. So, you manage to blend in, like “Okay, I should get out of here”, and when you come out of the door you definitely see that there are guards like in lockstep marching towards the ship [KEITH: Yeah.] with their big like pesticide sprayers. Um, Flashback and Half Past, y’all are now in this room filled with guards and screaming people. What do you do? 


ALI: Can I fence my way out? 


AUSTIN: Tell me what that looks like and “probably” is the answer.


ALI: Fencing is like very mobile sort of fight, right? 


AUSTIN: Mhm. There’s also like pressure and pushing people back, and like…


ALI: Right! Yeah, exactly. So it’s a lot of like [KEITH: Yeah.] I can make my way closer to the door while fighting people off. 


AUSTIN: Totally. 


KEITH: No one wants to be sort of firmly swatted with a pole. [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: Are you helping with that, Half Past? 


DRE: Yeah! Um… 


AUSTIN: Oh, also, Flashback, you leveled! You had 3 before, and you got 2 from Hidden Longing, not one. 


ALI: Oh, okay, so I’m leveled? 


AUSTIN: ‘Cause it got you in trouble. So yeah, yeah, yeah. So, when you level add a new trait, based on something you learned during play, add a tag to an existing trait, add a new Key (you can never have the same key twice), or learn a Secret (if you have the means to). 


ALI: Oh my God, I could just write a Key? 


AUSTIN: You… No, they’re listed in the back, there’s extra Keys in the back. 


ALI: Oh, okay-okay-okay. 


AUSTIN: They’re cool, like they’re neat. It’s a cool system. 


ALI: Okay. 


DRE: Oh, should I take, uh… 


KEITH: [crosstalk] Yeah, this game’s great. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 


DRE: ...two for Key of Fraternity, Austin?


AUSTIN: ...Yes. Yeah, yes. [ALI giggles] 


KEITH: Do I get anything for… ‘Cause it says for Key of the Impostor, it asks me to disguise, and passing myself off as commoner. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, take a hit. Yes, absolutely. Yeah, I think that I’ll still give it to you for this one.


KEITH: Okay. Do I get one for the whole thing? Or…


AUSTIN: This is one. You never got yourselves into trouble, weirdly. You were never the one who got people into trouble, so take one for that. 


KEITH: Okay, cool. 


AUSTIN: Um…


KEITH: So that’s five, I’m now at five. 


AUSTIN: Okay, so then that’s a, that’s a level. 


ALI: Okay. 


AUSTIN: For both of you. 


KEITH: And now I can pick…


AUSTIN: So, you can either make one of your skills, one of your tags like real, one of the ones that are in brackets, [KEITH: Yeah.] you can, you can, uh, add a new trait based on something you learned in play or past experience, you can add a new Key, and those are, there are Keys listed in the book on page… whatever this page is, [KEITH: Mhm.] towards the back… 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: 10, on page 10. There’s also new traits and tags there, too. Um. 


KEITH: So, it’s definitely a hard one to pick. 


ALI: We can do it in downtime? 


AUSTIN: You can. You can also— 


KEITH: [crosstalk] I pick Fly. I pick Fly, though. 


AUSTIN and ALI: Okay. 


KEITH: I decided it’s Fly. The Fly. 


ALI: You can fly? Wait, excuse me? 


KEITH: Yeah, I can fly. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, from Master Sorcerer. [ALI gasps]So you just like fly out..? Okay, we’ll get back to you. Let’s… Flashback, you were doing some fencing…


ALI: Yes. 


AUSTIN: And you’re not going to spend, you’re not gonna level up right now, you’re gonna hold that level? 


ALI: I mean… ‘cause… Yeah, I… In between sessions, I…


AUSTIN: We’ll figure it out. Yep, okay. 


DRE: Um…


ALI: But I think that I have, um… Fencing, Sword,... Battle-Hardened? [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: Yeah. ‘Cause you’re just like… [ALI: Yeah.] ‘Cause I imagine it’s almost like, you’re getting hit, but you’re like “Fuck it, I’m gonna keep moving.” 


ALI: Right, yeah-yeah-yeah, exactly. So that’s 4 alone. 


DRE: And I’m gonna give you one. 


AUSTIN: What are you doing? How are you helping out, Half Past? 


DRE: I steal a deck of cards off of one of these gambling tables and I’m just fucking card throwing at all these fools. 


AUSTIN: [laughing] Okay, good. 


DRE: I take my magician shit very seriously. 


AUSTIN: Just shhew-sshew-sshew-sshew-sshew? 


DRE: Yeah. [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN (as one of the Advent people): What are you..? Stop it! There’s— B— Are— Um!!


ALI: “Ow! That’s… inconvenient!” 


AUSTIN: [laughing] Alright, give me a 3. 


ALI: [laughing] Okay. 


AUSTIN: Hey! 


DRE: Booyah. 


AUSTIN: 3 successes!


ALI: 3 successes exactly. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, perfect. Very close though. [ALI: Is there…] So, yeah, you push you way out the door… What’s that? 


ALI: Is there a way to clear traits, or just..? 


AUSTIN: What do you mean? Like…


ALI: Like Injured, Dead, Tired? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, that’s… You can do that via, via refresh. Refresh heals that. Refresh lets you clear a condition. 


ALI: Okay. 

AUSTIN: So, you are… You like bust out the door. What do they see you doing, Absolute Territory, as they get out the door? After… So, you push the guards back. They’re spraying stuff at you that like you realize is like some sort of paralysis gas ‘cause there’s a bit where it hits one of your hands, or catches you in the finger, and your finger just goes numb, Flashback. But you manage to get past without being stasised, and get outside. And Territory, what are you doing as they surround the ship? 


KEITH: Um, I’m sorry. You... I heard most of what you said but some was lost for me. 


AUSTIN: There are… There are like… Okay. There are like ten guards surrounding the ship at this point.


KEITH: I’m gonna try leaving the call and coming back real quick. 


AUSTIN: Okay. It’s that bad? 


ALI: It’s not bad for me. 


AUSTIN: Me either. 


ALI: Hey? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I’m here.


ALI: Keith? 


KEITH: Hello. Hi. 


AUSTIN: You back? 


DRE: Hello? 


AUSTIN: Good now? 


KEITH: Everything’s good. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


KEITH: Yeah. So, I heard what you said, there’s pesticide… 


AUSTIN: Yeah. There was— 
[02:45:00]


KEITH: [crosstalk] And then something is paralyzing, and they got my finger? 


AUSTIN: Not your finger, that was Flashback. They got Flashback’s finger. So she knows that that’s how that works. But now they’ve surrounded the ship. You’re out there. You see them surrounding the ship. 


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: And they’re like preparing to board the ship. What do you do as they prepare to board the ship?


KEITH: Um, I fly… 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] And they put clamps on it also. 


KEITH: They’ve already put clamps on it? 


AUSTIN: They’re, they’re in the process of trying to clamp it. 


KEITH: Do you think I can fly in there and get it up before…


AUSTIN: [dreamy] Oh yeah. 


KEITH: Yeah? [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: I mean, maybe not… How are you… Are you gonna like fly in and try to pilot it? 


KEITH: I… 


AUSTIN: Are you gonna…? 


KEITH: I, here’s what happens. I’m running, [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] and… So I guess what I try to do is I try to like use little jets of wind coming out of like my heels to make myself run faster, [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] and it just makes me start flying. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


KEITH: And I’m flying. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


KEITH: And I just zoom into the ship and try to get it up. 


AUSTIN: Okay. The thing here is, you need to both be flying it and also be… You need to take flying in there as one roll, but then like piloting it as another roll. 


KEITH: Yeah.


AUSTIN: You do not have any pilot skill. 


KEITH: I do have Educated and Science. 


AUSTIN: Oh. There’s a thing that we have here that’s not… that’s gonna make this not a problem. [ALI laughs] 


KEITH: Okay. What’s that? Oh, is that the crew? Is it the whole crew? 


AUSTIN: I mean, I mean, the crew doesn’t include any pilots. It’s something Flashback has and hasn’t used yet. 


ALI: Yeah, I was gonna say, when you roll with that I can assist be being like... 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 


ALI: [crosstalk] Like controlling my ship through my...


KEITH: [crosstalk] Will you guys help me run the ship? And I promise I’m not running away. 


ALI: I can control my ship through my face. 


AUSTIN: Oh, there’s another thing that you have that you’ve forgotten about completely. 


ALI: [laughing] Oh, the teleport thing? 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Uh-huh.


ALI: I guess it was... It’s once per session, and I guess a session is…


AUSTIN: The session is about to end, so. 


ALI: Oh, yeah, yeah. I would love to. 


AUSTIN: So, let’s get the Fly, let’s do you getting in, [KEITH: Okay.] and like past all these guys…


KEITH: [crosstalk] So, lithat’s Master Sorcerer… Okay… 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] So they like turn… They try to like shoot at you basically, as you’re flying towards them is what’s happening. Yeah, definitely Master Sorcerer, definitely Fly, definitely Spellcaster. I don’t think this is Channeling. 


KEITH: Wouldn’t I be channeling the wind that I use to fly? 


AUSTIN: No, ‘cause then everything you do is channeling, do you know what I mean? Channeling is like I’m standing still, I’m channeling my energy. Do you know what I mean? 


KEITH: [crosstalk] I guess that’s true. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 


AUSTIN: So I think that’s 3? 4, Wind is…


KEITH: It is Stormblood? 


AUSTIN: It is definitely Stormblood, yeah. 


KEITH: I was thinking, it is Master Sorcerer, Spellcaster, Stormblood, Wind, Fly. 


AUSTIN: Yeah, I think that’s fair. 


KEITH: Master Sorcerer, Spellcaster, Stormblood… so 5. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 


KEITH: Um… And then…


AUSTIN: I think this is a 3, again. 


KEITH: A 3? Okay. It’s fine. 


AUSTIN: ‘Cause there’s a bunch of them, and they’re all trying to like zap ya. With this, with their pesticide, with their like stasis [KEITH: Okay.] spray. 


KEITH: So I’m now using 3, so this is 8. 


AUSTIN: Okay. Get those three successes. Hey, there you go! 


DRE: Nice. 


AUSTIN: Four successes. So you’re in, you like fly through the entryway. The crew is like “Get on! Get on!” and they’re like throwing, you know… [AUSTIN laughs a bit] They’re like throwing slings… I don’t know what the fuck… What weapons does your crew have? If any? 


KEITH: Guns. 


AUSTIN: I guess. Yeah, maybe they have guns, they’re like shooting out the guns…


KEITH: [crosstalk] They’re pirates. 


ALI: Um… 


AUSTIN: They are pirates, but like, their guns break, so it’s like shoot— drop, shoot—drop, you know. [KEITH laughs] 


ALI: I think they should ha— Oh, I, this is… No, I can’t say this after…


AUSTIN: Okay. After what? After the collar? 


ALI: I wanted them to have like stun whips like Aria did, but now this is like I don’t want it to be like a weird fetish ship, like I really don’t. [KEITH laughs] 


AUSTIN: [crosstalk] Uh-huh. Oh. with all leather everything, stun whips, collars...


ALI: [crosstalk] I swear to God, I don’t even.. The collar thing, now you have to deal with… 


DRE: [crosstalk] Yeah… Stealing collars, fetish whips, uh-huh. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. 


ALI: [laughing] I hate this! I quit! 

AUSTIN: A hammock… 


DRE: Suddenly all the beds are missing… 


AUSTIN: Why is there a hammock above the bed? I don’t know, I don’t… 


ALI: I’m deleting this from our Patreon [ALI laughs] because it’s too powerful. 


AUSTIN: Okay. 


ALI: What’s a whip that isn’t like, you know? 


KEITH: There isn’t! There isn’t one. 


AUSTIN: There isn’t, that’s…


ALI: No. Yes, there is! Yes, there is. Yes, there is, ‘cause it’s like…


KEITH: Like a bullwhip maybe… [AUSTIN: No!] Like an Indiana Jones bullwhip. 


AUSTIN: [happily] No. 


KEITH: ‘Cause it’s like 20 feet long! 


DRE: What about those like… 


ALI: What was the… Remember when we were walking with Jack, and he was saying like the thing that you throw behind someone, and then it like… 


AUSTIN: What?


ALI: And then you aim at a thing? You guys… We were talking about like oh, the Twilight Mirage shouldn’t have guns anymore, but we should have fight scenes where you like throw a thing behind someone, and then… 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh? 


ALI: From a game? [ALI laughs] I feel like teleporting behind them, or… 


AUSTIN: [crosstalking] Oh, we were talking about… We were talking about heat signature stuff, totally. 


ALI: Okay. 


KEITH: Oh, this isn’t like a bolas thing? [ALI laughs] 


AUSTIN: No, I don’t think it’s about bolas, no. Um… 


DRE: Are we talking about caltrops? I don’t 


AUSTIN: No, I think we’re talking about… 


ALI: Oh, those could work! 


AUSTIN: Caltrops could… I mean, in this case they wouldn’t ‘cause the bad guys are gonna be like “Okay, we’re not gonna step on those.” [ALI laughs] “We’re just gonna shoot your friends.” or whatever. I guess it would keep them from boarding, right? So yeah, [ALI: If it comes to boarding…] you could drop a bunch of caltrops at the entry point. [ALI: I like that…] We’re really… We’re having a problem getting on the boat this time. [ALI laughs] Just get on this boat. 


ALI: Yes, sure. 


KEITH: Just, hold on, I do have a thing to say. ...Like, we can just shut the door, and you guys can teleport in. 

AUSTIN: Yes, that’s what I’m saying! Yes! [ALI laughs] Yes, just so that. 


KEITH: Just get on, there’s not like a secret thing that you have to… 


AUSTIN: What’s the teleport effect look like? 


KEITH: I was gonna, by the way, I was just gonna crash into the building. [AUSTIN: Okay.] And like be like “Oh, I’m in the building now.” But the teleport thing is stronger I think. 


AUSTIN: It works. What’s your teleport look like? And you just like... grab shoulder and teleport time? 


ALI: Yeah, I think so. I think so.


AUSTIN: But what’s the effect? 


ALI: Um, I think that it goes through the, the, the face thing. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. 


ALI: So they like kind of… I think they kind of shoot out like a laser thing, but like… Goes straight up and then down over us, like a [Ummm], like a tele— you know, like a teleporter. 


AUSTIN: Oh, like a teleporter. [Mwaaah.] Yeah. Of course. Got you. 


ALI: Like, you know, it’s a light that like slowly goes over us, [AUSTIN: Uh-huh.] and once we’re basked within light we teleport. 


AUSTIN: Uh-huh. So you like take off, you’re there, you run into the help, you lift off, they’re trying to spray the, the like stasis stuff at you… You’re like seeing that like the jet coming off of your ship does gets like frozen in time, like the engine. Like, you’re able to push away in this moment. Actually maybe you should roll for this. I think maybe… Let’s just abstract out one last roll here. Which is like Advent is launching ships, the Creeping Chain is now in like your rear view, and is getting closer, but y’all have a fully, a fully fueled ship. We need one last roll to try to like get you out, out of the area. Who’s piloting? I guess, Flashback? 


ALI: Uh, yeah. I guess this would be… I think it should… It should be a scene where it’s like everyone’s working, so I want it to be… [AUSTIN: Yeah.] Tactics, Command, Soldiers, Rank, Ship… and that’s my 5. 6! 


AUSTIN: And Maps. 


ALI: And Maps! 7. 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Yeah. 


ALI: Alright. I’m gonna roll 7 whole dice right now. 


AUSTIN: Well, how does Connections work? Connections is the only one there that I don’t think it works.


ALI: No, yeah! So, Tactics, Command, Soldiers, Rank, Maps, [AUSTIN: Yes, Maps…] Ship…


AUSTIN: And the War Ship, your ship. 


ALI: And the Soldiers one, yeah?


AUSTIN: Yeah, Soldiers, yeah. Two, three... You’re good. 


ALI: Yeah, okay. And that’s whole 5. 


AUSTIN: Sorry, I meant 3. I meant to say 3, so 5 is… 5 is more than enough, I could have said 5. And you would have gotten it. So, yeah, so I think like… Let’s abstract this out. And what we get is like the shot of the Yellow Flag like dodging between the various Advent drones that are coming after y’all with like electrified nets trying to capture the ship, and then the Creeping Chain launches a bunch of those like drill drones that we saw during Even Gardner’s This Year of Ours, um, vignette, and...


ALI: Hm. 


AUSTIN: You manage to dodge between those, and... I don’t know what type of weapons your ship has, but like manage to know those away or whatever, and, and like lift off and to enough speed to like head straight north up towards Crown. And I think what we, what we’re gonna end on is like, “Whoah…” Like you made it, and you’ve made it close enough to the… You’ve made it close enough… or far enough away to have shaken Advent, and have shaken the, the Creeping Chain. The Herringbone Flotilla and like the Rogue Way don’t go in like too close into this system, because it’s dangerous. Because it’s like where the big fleets of the NEH and the Divine Free States are. And speaking of, the thing that I think we end on is like… It’s been a couple of days—if we ever come back to this we can do like background… We can like fill in the gap between escaping Advent and here, but—you’re like “Ah! All I have to do is get a little bit closer, all I have to do is get to Crown.” 


AUSTIN: But as you near you see the fleet that the… Sorry, not the Sol's Vanguard, is actually not what’s there. What’s there is the Apogee, is there. Which is the main fleet of the Divine Free States which is cut across the, the entire system to try to block you off. Because they’ve learned that… The Divine Free States have learned that the… Absolute Territory is on his way to Crown, and will kind of become a… Will be in the pocket of New Earth Hegemony, and doesn’t want that to happen. Would rather you be in their care, so to speak, and so they… We end with like the arrival of the Divine Free States armada, like off in the distance. Like, what are those lights? And then it’s like… It light up, and it’s like bright divine light. I think maybe even like Bountiful is there, or something, right? And it’s like “Oh, shit! Goddammit! Now what?” And that is where we’re gonna leave off. 


AUSTIN: This game is really cool. 


KEITH: Uh-huh. 


ALI: We did it. 


AUSTIN: I like it a lot. We did the thing, and now it’s midnight, and I have to finish writing a thing. Alright. [ALI laughs] I guess the xp is done, basically, right? Unless there’s more here? Oh, take one more, everyone take one more for Key of the Mission. 


KEITH: Well, almost everyone. 


ALI: Not me. 


AUSTIN: Not... Oh. 


DRE: Daaaamn. 


AUSTIN: Sorry. Um… You should probably take it as your upgrade. 


ALI: [crosstalk] I should take that as my upgrade. 


DRE: Oh, hey! Do I get the Key of Greed for us stealing fuel? 


AUSTIN: Oh yeah. And for you stealing the monocle. 


DRE: Did I..? I think… Did I already mark that one. 


AUSTIN: Oh, you may have already marked that one. 


DRE: I think I did. Okay. 


AUSTIN: It would be wise to have. 


DRE: I think I did. 


AUSTIN: Get rid of Need Fuel. There we go. Okay. Let’s time.is. This nonsense. 


ALI: We’re about to, yeah. [AUSTIN laugh]  


KEITH: Thirty? 


AUSTIN: Yeah, thirty. 


DRE: Yeah. 


ALI: Okay. Thirty, yeah. 


[They clap.] 


AUSTIN: Okay.


ALI: Okay. 


AUSTIN: Thank you for joining us, everybody. As always, thanks for supporting us. Let people know, that we do goofy shit like this, [ALI laughs] as part of the Patreon, friendsatthetable.cash. I’m gonna go get some coffee, and write some. Have a good night, everybody!


KEITH: I feel like I was, if anything, less goofy. 


DRE: Night! 


AUSTIN: [snorting] Okay. Have a good night! 


ALI: [laughing] Bye! 






________________
[1] The name in the audio recording is no longer in use, hence the audio/transcript discrepancy.