Live at the Table 41: Hawkers (January 2021)
Transcriber: vesta


JACK: Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast focused on smart characterisation, critical worldbuilding, and fun interaction between good friends. I am your host, Jack de Quidt, standing in today for Austin Walker, who—I hope he’s resting. And I am joined by Alicia Acampora.


ALI: Hello. [laughs] I’m Alicia Acampora-


JACK: Hello!


ALI: I’m- this is, we’re on Patreon, so people know where to find me? But if you don’t, you can find me on @ali_west on Twitter. Hi, welcome!


JACK: Andrew Lee Swan.


ANDREW: Hey, you can find me on Twitter @Swandre3000. And I- I don’t know, I’m thinking about maybe streaming on Twitch while I’m in between jobs coming up.


JACK: Oh, fun!


ANDREW: So you can follow me on Twitch @obiswankenobi.


ALI: Mmm!


JACK: Sylvi Clare.


SYLVIA: Hey I’m Sylvi, you can follow me on Twitter @sylvibullet, and listen to my other podcast Emojidrome wherever you get your podcast. I don’t have an extra thing to mention for the Patreon? It’s my birthday this week, [Ali gasps] so maybe just get ready-


JACK: Oh! 


KEITH: Happy Birthday!


SYLVIA: -to say Happy Birthday to me on Thursday? If you’re listening live? 


JACK [overlapping]: Thursday? Okay! 


SYLVIA: It’s my birthday. Anyway, that’s it for me. Bye!


JACK: And finally, Keith Carberry.


KEITH: Hi, my name is Keith J Carberry, you can find me on Twitter @KeithJCarberry. And you can find the Let’s Plays that I do at youtube.com/runbutton, and since this is the Patreon already, you should also go to contentburger.biz, the other Patreon that pays me money.


JACK: Excellent! I’m on Twitter @notquitereal, and you can buy any of the music featured on the show at notquitereal.bandcamp.com- we have to do our proper introductions, cause when we sell ourselves to an absolutely magnificent corporate entity and this goes into their valut, when people in the future look it up, they’ll need to know to find us online.


ALI: Ohh…


JACK: Today we are going to be player Hawkers, a game about making the best out of the spoils of a life spent adventurer, by S. Gates. It’s available on itch.io. I think I’ll just reading the pitch from the book! 


Hawkers is a GM-less game about being adventurers who have decided to retire to a quiet life of being shopkeeps after your exploits on the road. You've amassed quite a number of artifacts in your travels, and they won't do much for you by just sitting on a shelf. It only makes sense that you sell them to fund your peaceful retirement. Right?


Does anybody have any additional preambles to this game before we go into what we need and how to play? Oh it’s worth saying that this game has a section at the beginning on Lines and Veils, as well as explaining the use of the X-Card in play. Speaking for myself, I’m sort of happy to work with similar stuff that we sort of spent time talking about in prep for Sangfielle and things, though I imagine that the tone of this game will be very different [Ali and Andrew chuckle], but if anybody else has anything that they’d like to specifically bring up here, you’re more than welcome to.


ALI: Yeah! I- I don’t imagine that this is going to be like a tough stuff game,


JACK: No.


ALI: And I would like to in fact avoid that?


JACK: Yes.


ALI: But, yeah.


JACK: We have enough of that in our other [Ali giggles] podcast, and in the world at large!


ALI: Mhm.


JACK: But yeah! So, to play, you will need 2-6 players, which we have.


KEITH: Check.


JACK: 2-4 hours. Which, well, we have. Four hours might be pushing it [Ali laughs] but I’m sure we can- 


SYLVIA: It says 2 to 4, not 4-


​​JACK: 2 to 4, yes exactly-


KEITH: And we’re really good at staying inside designated time limits.


SYLVIA: We have a reputation for it!


JACK: We in fact- we have a reputation for it. The thing they say about Friends at the Table is that it’s concise [someone scoffs]. And we do have a 12-sided dice, thanks to the magic of computers, we can roll as many dice as we want. [Ali laughs]


Setting up. You are all- [chuckles] yes?


ALI: Hm?


ANDREW: Nothing, I don’t know, that tickled me Jack. [Ali laughs]


JACK: Okay! Setting up. You are all former adventurers who now work together in the same shop. First determine what your shop is like. Is it tidy? Is it cluttered? Does it see a lot of traffic or do you only get patronage from discerning collectors? What's its name? You should also have an idea about your setting: how common magic is, how common adventurers are, and so on. 


How we feeling about shops?


ALI: I- the world is our oyster.


ANDREW: Unless we’re selling oysters.


KEITH: We’re selling signs that say “the world is your oyster”. [Ali laughs]


JACK: What is our kitschy-ness level of the shop?


SYLVIA: Oh! Oh man can we be kitschy? 


KEITH: Above average. Yeah.


ANDREW: Yes.


ALI: Yeah, I feel- I want to lean cluttered I think?


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: Like a good like antique shop kind of vibe?


KEITH: It’s so hard to even picture an antique shop that isn’t cluttered.


JACK: It would frighten me I think if I went into an antique shop that was very- you see them sometimes in Los Angeles right, where it’s like this antique shop has six antiques in, and each of them- [Ali laughs]


SYLVIA: Oh that’s not a real-


JACK: -is a thousand dollars, and I’m like no, no, absolutely not!


KEITH: Right.


SYLVIA: The best antiques are the ones that I visited when I was in college that had like three different fake skeletons in there just littered about?


ANDREW: Damn.


SYLVIA: Next to an old rusty guitar.


KEITH: I should go to more antique shops. You know there’s an antique shop right down the street from me that I’ve never been in-


JACK: Oh wow!


KEITH: I’ve noticed it a bunch of times and have been like, I should figure out what’s in that antique shop and I have yet to.


ALI: It’s time.


JACK: I- there was an antique shop in my town when I was a kid, that was like a posh antique shop? Not quite that it only had five things in, but it was like run by a man who wore a monocle [Sylvia laughs] and most of the day- you know, like that kind of a guy. And I remember going in there as a kid with my dad and I was like a kid so I was trying to touch something and he got really angry with me. And I had to leave the shop, and that- fuck that guy! I just wanna say.


KEITH: Yeah.


JACK: Fuck his antique shop. But I do think maybe an antique shop- an antique shop might be nice. What if- like what if we commit to a multi-floor, sprawling, cluttered thing?


ANDREW: Oh, amazing-


KEITH [overlapping]: So we’re adventurers, so this implies to me that it’s like a, like we will just pick up anything on an adventure- [someone spits, someone else whistles] which is accurate to like a video game style, like you look in every bin and pick up everything.


ANDREW: Yeah.


KEITH: And then it’s just like well, add it to the store, we’ve got the room.


SYLVIA: I’ve been playing a lot of CRPGs and that’s a valid strategy! And I think we should go with that!


ANDREW: When Jack said multi-level I was teleported from thinking of like a thrift or an antique store, to um, my frame of reference of these are the shitty gift stores that are in like Destin, Florida? But I remember in my childhood, the beach we would go to had a store that was called Alvin’s Island that was two storeys-


SYLVIA: Oh my god.


ANDREW: And it was just full of absolute shit garbage! [Jack laughs] Including you know, the cheapest, shittiest t-shirts you would ever buy. Terrible snorkels, goggles, like fake seashells. Just total vacation bullshit.


KEITH: Like a bunch of like graphic tee art but it’s on a boogie board?


ANDREW: Oh yeah. Uh huh. [Ali laughs]


KEITH: Like a cardboard box full of boogie boards-


ANDREW [overlapping]: And then the graphic tee art on the boogie board is then reprinted on a t-shirt with the picture of the boogie board on it.


ALI: Uh huh, yeah.


KEITH: You can have a boogie board of a shark eating a person on a boogie board?


ANDREW: Yeah,


KEITH: And also a t-shirt of that.


ANDREW: You can get like you know, Jimmy and Jamie Destin 2021 airbrushed on a shirt.


KEITH: Yup. One of those extremely- you know one of the most in-poor-taste things I’ve ever seen in Florida, is a shelf full of like baby alligator heads? 


SYLVIA: Oh.


ALI: No!! [sad chuckles]


KEITH: That you can just buy? Have you seen these? Has anybody seen these?


ALI: No!


KEITH: Yeah, they sell them to like kids. This is- I think they’re real. Like this is like a small alligator and its head has been you know, coated in like polyurethane and now we sell them to children.


ANDREW: I mean I believe that it’s real, a hundred percent.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: We don’t sell those.


JACK: The adven- no! [Ali chuckles] The adventure version of this like, what? There’s like a bucket of nails from when adventurers just picked up like- I’m talking about like, iron nails from Skyrim or something, or over here, you can just buy a load of- what is some other stuff that adventurers have?


KEITH: Shovels.


ALI: You know.


JACK: Shovels.


ALI: Shovels.


JACK: Tents- you can buy tents, there’s a whole camping section.


ALI: Oh, yeah. Gems, assorted?


JACK: What is the gem sales area look like? [Ali chuckles] How do you- like what is this? Is it like a bead shop, or like when you go buy bird seed, and it’s just like a fucking bucket [Ali chuckles] full of like dark coloured-


ANDREW: Alright everyone be quiet so that Ali can answer about what the gem section looks like [Ali laughs in delight and claps].


SYLVIA: It’s just a whole bin full of moldavite.


ALI: Yeah. Maybe like, curio shelf? Everyone loves a good curio shelf.


ANDREW: Mm.


KEITH: Sure.


ALI: With a table with them just displayed out? I think like some of your more common gems you have the little bins of them. I think the fancy ones you know, you put them higher up. Maybe there’s a gem that like, is shaped like a radish or something?


ANDREW: Ooh!


ALI: You really think someone wants to come through and get that.


JACK: Oh damn!


ALI: Uh huh.


KEITH: I love the- I love going to the magical curio and sorting through the gems [Ali chuckling] shaped like other things section. [Jack chuckles]


ALI: It’s a great way to spend a Sunday.


SYLVIA: You say that, but the store we’re describing would absolutely have this! So I love it.


JACK: Skeleton section. How do we feel about a skeleton section which both sells, it sells- well I don’t know if it sells skeletons, I think it sells things to skeletons.


SYLVIA: That’s! I like that more.


ANDREW: I like that a lot more, yeah.


KEITH: Things skeletons need. Got it.


JACK: Things skeletons need are of course, gems.


ANDREW: Calcium supplements.


KEITH: Rainproof outerwear? [Jack chuckles]


ANDREW: Varnish.


JACK: Based on my experience with Skyrim, like four to six arrows?


KEITH: Gold teeth.


ANDREW: Yup. [Sylvi chuckles]


JACK: Oh shit! They do have gold teeth.


ANDREW: I mean, really just gold anything if you’re a skeleton.


KEITH: Right. Well you get your tooth knocked out, you just pop down to the antique store and put- pop a gold tooth in.


JACK: Well you do have to pay for it. Yes Ali?


ALI: How do you spell clientele? Is there an ‘a’?


JACK: I would throw an ‘e’ on the end of that.


ALI: Clientele,


JACK: But I’m not sure-


KEITH: I would also throw an ‘e’ at the end of that.


ALI: Clientel-e.


ANDREW: [italian-like] Ey! Clientelé! [Ali laughs]


JACK: Curses- curses is a section. Cursed objects. There, you can buy them for a lot cheaper, but they might be cursed.


ANDREW: Mmm.


KEITH: Well okay so this brings up the- there’s the question about how magic is it. I-


JACK: Yeah! Great point.


KEITH: Because we’re in, we’re doing Sangfielle and it is like, there’s a lot of magic, but there’s not like a bunch of magic stuff, I would like a world where basically anything might accidentally be a magic thing?


JACK: That’s also kind of Sangfielle though, right?


ANDREW: Yeah.


KEITH: Is there a lot of magical objects? I feel like you don’t come- 


SYLVIA: Yeah!


KEITH: Yeah, maybe it was a tad different- different experiences. I guess we came across a magic plant in ours, but.


JACK: Mmm. No there’s magic.


ANDREW: So with, by is it magic, the descriptor answer is irresponsibly so?


KEITH: Yeah I think so.


ANDREW: Okay. 


KEITH: I mean I think unless-


ALI: [overlapping] Like in a way that’s like- [giggles]


KEITH: Anyone disagrees. I guess yeah, if ca- a casual attitude towards an abundance of magical items. I guess that’s the difference cause it’s not a problem that you might buy a magic pen.


ANDREW: Right.


JACK: Although I suppose it depends on what it does.


KEITH: Sure.        


JACK: You know if it writes the Cursed Song of the Deep, that rules, that’s great. [Ali giggles]


KEITH: I love the Cursed Song of the Deep.


JACK: Yeah personally, the Cursed Song of the Deep, that’s a normal song.


KEITH: I love the Cursed Song of the Deep, and I love the way that it beckons me [Jack and Sylvi laugh]


JACK: Does this shop see a lot of traffic, or do we only get patronage from discerning collectors? Or what I think of is a third option here, does nobody just fucking come? [Ali chuckles] The shop’s like, very little foot traffic.


SYLVIA: Well, I was gonna ask like, what type of like town we think we’re in?


JACK: Yeah.


KEITH: Yeah.


SYLVIA: Cause we’ve kind of been drawing off like, cursed places, and I don’t know if we’re gonna lean into that or like, if we just wanted to be like, just like a hole in the wall in some city or something you know?


KEITH: I do- 


JACK: Oh was that Ali?


KEITH: oh sorry Ali?


ALI: I was gonna say, I like the idea of like a marketplace?


KEITH: Yup.


ALI: Of the idea of like somebody coming through to the side of town and getting a bunch of onions,


SYLVIA: Yeeeah, that’s cool.


ALI: And getting some shoes, and then being like yeah! Let me stop in.


ANDREW: So are we a stall? Or are we like in a building?


KEITH: What’s- two floors! 


SYLVIA: So a stall.


KEITH: So a giant-! The biggest stall you’ve ever seen! [Friends laugh]


JACK: You’ve got a fucking scaffolding at that point, right? It’s like, some weird armature with a shop built inside of it.


ALI: Do you- build our own ladder?


JACK: Yeah!


KEITH: I like, I do like the Dre- I think Dre introduced a sort of boardwalk vibe that I like, I would like to keep the boardwalk vibe of you know.


SYLVIA: We can combine that with the marketplace idea.


KEITH: Yeah, I think those are extremely compatible.


[00:15:00]


JACK: I think also, something you said Sylvi about it being a tourist-y type place. Is there something in this town that people are visiting? Like is it a pilgrimage site- there is a town in the Grand Tableau that is very well suited to this, the wizards in Spoken Magic visited it? It’s sort of like a, it’s sort of like a magical center that has been taken over by tourists. But if we want to make a new place, that’s something I’m also, because I think- you know, we could go either way there. But I do like the idea of a town that is drawing tourists to it for some reason, that’s like you know. There’s a temple, or there’s a-


KEITH: And is it the same reason that we have like, did we get all our adventure stuff from the place that people are coming to see? Or is it just unrelated, do we just find a busy spot? Does that make sense, my question?


JACK: Yeah!


SYLVIA: Yeah!


JACK: I don’t know.


KEITH: I don’t know either. [Ali chuckles]


ALI: Well it might be the thing of like, what Jack is saying in terms of like, oh everybody wants to come here to see the cool fountain. Everybody wants to come here to see the cool buildings. And then we you know, go all across the map, we collect our gems, we collect our calcium supplements [Sylvi laughs], and then we’re like, you know what, we’re going to retire in Fountaintown, because it’s a beautiful place. And a lot of people go there, and we’ll be able to make money off of our stuff [laughs].


KEITH: Okay.


JACK: Fountaintown! Because of the big great fountain, or because of the several notable fountains?


KEITH: There was a mayor obsessed with fountains [Ali laughs] and he went around funding the construction of whatever everyone now agrees was too many fountains. But wow, weren’t they so good, and we loved to come see them.                


JACK: There is a water gem down in the sewers making all the- what were you going to say Sylvi?


SYLVIA: The locals hate the fountains. Like, tourists are fine with it?


JACK: Yeah. I like that a lot. So where- we’re a stall perhaps with like a little warehouse-y type area attached to it in the market of this town. There’s big fountains in the square- do the fountain- the water in the fountains are these different colours, right? Or something?


ALI: Oooh.


JACK: Something magical about them in that regard. Or are there just lots of them? I don’t know! 


SYLVIA: Different liquids. [Andrew laughs]


JACK: [laughing] Different liquids!


KEITH: Oh, a Sprite one.


ANDREW: Mhm. A McDonalds’ Sprite one, there’s a Regular Sprite one.


KEITH: Right.


SYLVIA: God.


KEITH: I thought you said to meet me over at- what is it, does Sprite have a Zero? [Ali laughs] I meant Regular Sprite!


ANDREW: I think so?


KEITH: Not Diet Sprite!


SYLVIA: This is the 7Up fountain, god damn it!


JACK: A fucking- a fountain that is carbonated seems like it would break constantly, right?


ANDREW: Yeah! That’s why everyone hates the fountains in town.


JACK: Right, yeah. Uh huh. And people are constantly having to go and fucking fix ‘em. But it is probably, it is in a location that is nearby you know, sort of adventuring sites. How common are adventurers here, and what are adventurers doing? Are they going into ruins, are they-? What do adventurers do?


KEITH: Hm. 


ANDREW: I do like the idea if there’s all these fountains that there’s like a sewer system that adventurers have to maintain or maybe even like, create deeper and clear out- like deeper and deeper levels of underground place.


SYLVIA: The second town in a JRPG, which I love! [Jack and Ali chuckle]


ANDREW: Yeah and then at the end of the game, you unlock the endless dungeon in this town-


JACK: Yeah yeah yeah yeah!


ANDREW: And then you have to come back.


JACK: But this is great Sylvi, especially because you know, by this point in the second town in the RPG we’ve kind of got a handle on the commerce mechanics, 


SYLVIA: Yeah!


JACK: And like might have made some money from the fishing side quest, so it’s like yeah, I’ll go into this shop, I wanna buy-


KEITH: But we don’t have a lot of really high level item shops-


JACK: No.


KEITH: Competing for our business.


JACK: I really like the idea of having to descend into the like irrigation networks that power the four hundred and fifty fountains of this place or whatever?


KEITH: It doesn’t seem like being an adventurer is super profitable or at least we’re not the best adventures in the world, because we have had to open a shop instead of retire from adventuring.


ANDREW: It’s kinda- I think it’s both! 


KEITH: Okay.


SYLVIA: I think the implication is that we just hoarded a lot of shit and are now trying to cash in, right? 


KEITH: Okay.


ALI: Yeah, I mean- adventuring is one income, and then retirement is- you know what I mean? [laughs]


KEITH: Mm.


ALI: I guess that’s how that works! 


ANDREW: Yeah I don’t wanna- I don’t wanna pay for this storage locker anymore, so.


KEITH: Right.


ALI: Sure. And also you don’t- I don’t wanna be out and about! I want to be in my Fountaintown.


JACK: Mhm.


ALI: I like the cafe next to the Sprite Fountain. [Sylvi chuckles]


JACK: It sells-


ALI: Yeah, like right near the Coke Fountain, gives you these kind of shoes,


SYLVIA: It’s just soda! [Ali laughs] We started at all- the fountains are just soda.


JACK: It sucks! [Friends chuckling]


KEITH: I mean it’s just a really funny thing for people to go visit- [wheezing] just like!


JACK: Send me a postcard from- [laughs]


KEITH: A constantly running tap of a hundred different sodas on all across town.


ALI: There’s a hundred of them now.


KEITH: I didn’t understand how many fountains was too many until I learned that there was a Sprite, a Diet Sprite, a Sprite Zero, a Sierra Mist and a 7Up. [Ali laughs] That’s too many- you’ve got too many bases covered.


ANDREW: Yeah that’s a lot.


KEITH: On the lemon lime.


JACK: Let’s make one fountain- two mountains if we want to be fancy with it.


KEITH: Can we go off to the knock-off Dr. Pepper pavilion? [Ali giggles]


JACK: Go in there,


SYLVIA: Yeah, we can go to Pisstown. [Friends chuckle] Pip runs that place.


KEITH: I like Dr. Thunder best.


ANDREW: Oh, god! Thank you Keith! Thank you for saying Dr. Thunder!


JACK: Is that a real one?


KEITH: Yeah it is a real one.


ALI: Yeah.


ANDREW: Was that Walmart?


KEITH: I think it was Walmart, yeah.


ANDREW: Yeah cause Kroger was Dr. K. 


SYLVIA: That-! That’s not a soda, that’s something else.


ALI: Autotune. Anyway.


JACK: Alright! Now, how common are adventurers- what did we decide on here? They’re fairly common right? Cause, there’s business to be done, it’s not necessarily super profitable but, right?


SYLVIA: Like for our characters, like why they’re here?


JACK: No I think that the people coming into the shop.


SYLVIA: Oh! Yeah, I think like, that makes sense? I feel like there’s probably like- are we like a pawn shop? Are people trying to also like,


JACK: I think it’s our stuff.


KEITH: Yeah I think we’ve got too much stuff already.


SYLVIA: That makes sense. [Ali chuckles] I just wanted to ask first.


KEITH: The store to me seems like a function of us having already fucked up by not getting rid of the stuff sooner?


ALI: I- you know I don’t know that it’s a fuck-up,


KEITH: Okay.


ALI: So much as it is like, [chuckles] sorry to disagree! But, [laughs] I don’t know that it is a fuck-up so much as it is like, I’m not going to be adventuring anymore, I don’t need these three leather hides, or these gems.


JACK: These ingots.


ALI: You know I’m not going to the-


KEITH: Or these boogie boards.


ALI: Enchanted forest anymore, I don’t need these green gems so that ghosts don’t attack me, so I can just sell them to other people now.


JACK: Yes! It’s like that, it’s like a real combination between you no longer need the key to open the thieves’ guild because you’ve done all the quests in the thieves’ guild, and also you are over-encumbered you cannot run? 


KEITH: Yeah.


JACK: So you just go back to like you know,


KEITH: Our different characters can have different motivations. For me, I’m like- why didn’t I sell these hundred gems progressively across the course of my career?


JACK: Mm, and now-


KEITH: And instead now I have a hundred gems.


JACK: Now they weigh more than a human. Yes.


Okay! Well that’s a good segue Keith actually to talking about our motivations, because now it is time for us to create our characters! We choose a name, a look, and pronouns. And next we each choose one of the classes below for our character. I really love this, these are just fantasy- like classic fantasy characters. We have a rogue, a cleric, a fighter, a sorcerer, a bard, and a ranger. And this is mostly for, you know we can get a lot of colour from this in terms of how we might interact, and in terms of what objects we might have. 


But also, there’s a dice rolling mechanic later and we get to re-roll the dice if we’re performing something that is related to our class skill. Every class has a skill, the rogue’s class is sneaking, the cleric’s skill is divine magic, the fighter’s skill is hitting things, the sorcerer’s skill is arcane magic, the bard’s skill is music, and the ranger’s skill is tracking. So when we choose these character classes, it’s worth thinking about what kind of a thing we want to be doing. Does anybody have any strong opinions about what kind of a character they want to play? 


ANDREW: Hmm.


KEITH: My gut, I have two gut instincts. And my first one was I should be a magic character that adds enchantments to items and then sells them as having been found


JACK: Ohh!


KEITH: Enchanted naturally occuring.


JACK: That’s great!


SYLVIA: God!


KEITH: But then my second thing was that I could be a ranger whose special skill is that I can always track down where anything is in the store for a customer.


ANDREW: Ooh!


JACK: Oh that’s great! 


ALI: That’s good because the ranger skill is tracking,


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: As determined.


KEITH: So those are my two. If someone had one- felt one way or the other about the- what was the two magic things? There was arcane magic, and some other?


JACK: And divine magic.


KEITH: So I guess arcane, so I guess sorcerer or ranger, then I’ll be the other one of those, because I had those two ideas sort of at the same time.


JACK: Yeah.


SYLVIA: I kinda like the idea of being the bard playing the like mall music in the background? [Ali and Jack laugh]


JACK: What do you play? What is that?


SYLVIA: Oh! It’s played like, it’s just generic muzak, it’s like [hums a tune]


JACK: It’s Girl From Ipanema.


SYLVIA: It’s Girl From Ipanema! Shit like that! Does not enjoy it, but you know, can’t really do much more adventurers when people are trying to shop. You don’t wanna distract them.


JACK: So living- okay.


KEITH: But you play it perfectly at this point.


SYLVIA: I need to think of a name, fuck.


JACK: Mmm.


ALI: I think I’m gonna call dibs on cleric?


JACK: Oh hell yeah.


ANDREW: I’m choosing between- I think I’m drawn to either rogue or fighter. I might go with fighter, because in this case I think hitting things means that I am- oh man I might just be one of those assholes who like buy stuff from other places then quote unquote upcycles them [Sylvi laughs] and sells them for an extra fifty dollars. Maybe that’s what my character does. 


JACK: What you are out here like, glueing gems onto a shield or something?


ANDREW: Yeah, and similar to kind of like what Keith proposed with the sorcerer enchanting things and saying no, I found it this way it’s like, I just take a regular shield and then I glue a bunch of gems on and be like, oh yeah! I found this in the fifteenth floor of the Tomb of King Agamem or whatever-


KEITH: So you do it physically and I do it magically.


ANDREW: Yeah.


JACK: Oh do you wanna play the sorcerer then, Keith?


KEITH: Yeah sure, yeah let’s do that.


JACK: Okay, I think I’ll take the ranger. And yeah, let’s take a moment to update these, and then we can introduce ourselves. So we’re looking for a name, a look, our class, and then our skill.


ANDREW: Oh wow! I just looked up DnD name generators and there’s a lot more DnD playable races than I remember it being.


ALI: Mm!


KEITH: Oh my goodness. I just tried to add some text and it’s so tiny. [Ali laughs] The font is so small. [Jack chuckles]


ALI: The text on the current thing is um, contrail size 40?


JACK: Oh thanks! [Ali wheezing] See this is why it’s great! Your methodology here.


ALI: Mhm.


JACK: Oh wait, I don’t know that it’s size 40, that’s pretty fucking big.


KEITH: I think maybe the like, the headings are size 40? Is that possible? 


ALI: No.


KEITH: No?


SYLVIA: Yeah.


ALI: It’s fine right now.


KEITH: Class, skill, and name look like 26 to me.


ALI: Well.


JACK: Oh! It get smaller. Okay.


ALI: Oh.


KEITH: Oh when you enter it in it gets smaller? Okay. Fair. Okay.


JACK: Oh, flummoxed.


SYLVIA: It’s really annoying me cause I can’t get Bard to line up with Skill. [Ali laughs]


JACK: Oh no I also-!


ALI: And then-


KEITH: Uh, no-


SYLVIA: Wait- [Ali unintelligible overlap]


KEITH: -and I tried to delete it, and then it-


ALI: And then it’ll snap to- maybe I can-


ANDREW: Mm. I just was clicking on-


SYLVIA [overlapping]: No yeah, they all-


ANDREW: The Roll20, and it was the fucking YouTube page. [Ali laughs] Very smart and good. [Jack chuckles]


ALI: Oh it happens.


ANDREW: Oh? Yeah, that just moved in a way that I [Ali chuckles] wish it didn’t.


ALI: Roll20 is.


ANDREW: Oh if you hold down ‘alt’ and then after you selected something, and then moved with the arrow keys it doesn’t auto- doesn’t auto snap to the-


ALI: Yeah yeah yeah.


ANDREW: -or whatever.


JACK: Okay, we’re getting- [chuckles] we’re getting some details appearing. I just scrolled over to Keith’s. [Andrew laughs] All coming together. Yeah! We- how do people feel about introducing themselves? 


ANDREW: Yeah-


JACK: We can wait a little longer. [Ali chuckles]


KEITH: I feel fine about that.


ALI: Sure.


KEITH: Sorry I had my mic muted for some reason, I don’t know why. So I was-


JACK: Shall we just go left to right in Roll20?


ANDREW: Yeah sure.


[00:30:00]


SYLVIA: Cause that gives me time to finish writing my look. [Andrew chuckles]


ANDREW: I guess that has me first. I’m Khunk the Fourth. I’m a giant bugbear dressed in very nice soft silken robes. I had to wear very heavy plate mail for a very long time, and I don’t want to anymore.


KEITH: Can he jump really high now?


JACK: Oh?


ANDREW: No I don’t think I follow Goku rules.


KEITH: Oh damn. [Ali chuckles] If anyone was to follow Goku rules it would be the fighter.


ANDREW: That’s true. I’ll say Khunk uses he/him pronouns. And I’m the fighter and my skill is of course hitting things.


JACK: Great. Congratulations on living life more comfortably! [Ali chuckles]


ANDREW: Thank you, thank you. It’s been a long time coming.


ALI: I- you know what? [laughs] Sorry, I just- [laughs more] I said that I was like, I have a name, and then I didn’t-


JACK: We can come back, we can wrap back around if-


ALI: No, it’s- I am, now unnamed. [laughs]


JACK: Uh huh. Uh huh.


ALI: [laughs] My look is that I have a short- I’m short, and I have shag haircut? And then I wear a bunch of charms of leaves? Jewelry-based mostly?


JACK: Oh sick.


ALI: [chuckles] And then I’m a cleric, and I have the Divine magic.


JACK: Are those charms of leaves made of leaves? Or are they like, gold or silver-


ALI: I think it’s a mix.


JACK: -but in the shape of a leaf- it’s a mixture?


ALI: Yeah.


JACK: What are your- have you decided on pronouns yet, or do you want to wait till we wrap back around.


ALI: Uh, let me decide on a name first.


JACK: Cool, okay. I am going to be playing Kark Greely. [Sylvi chuckles] He uses he/him pronouns. He is a slim ranger that has been carved, literally carved out of a tree. I’m sort of thinking of like a sort of a stick figure person? A ranger put a spell on a tree in the forest one day, and Kark Greely emerged from the tree, killed the ranger, and is now the ranger? My class is ranger and my skill is tracking, the first thing I tracked was the ranger who made me, then I killed him!


ANDREW: Mm, Mortal Kombat rules, got it.


JACK: Mortal Kombat rules, yeah!


SYLVIA: Okay, my character is Mimi Marigold. She uses she/they pronouns. Her look is that she is like a halfling- I described her as a halfling one-man-band, [Jack chuckles] I picture her with like a whole set-up, there’s a big drum on her back, she’s got like an accordion. I like- I don’t know, just like a very, like you can’t really see her that much outside of just like, her head underneath all the musical equipment, is how I’m picturing it?


JACK: So good.


SYLVIA: She is a bard, and her skill is music.


JACK: Great! Fantastic. And then Keith?


KEITH: Hi, my name is Richard Fantastic, I find ‘em you buy ‘em-


JACK: Fantastic. Yep.


KEITH: Just a sorcerer selling stuff, selling stuff to you. Pronouns are he/him [Andrew laughs]. And I’m, you know, a sorcerer, I do magic, but mostly, [laughing still going on in the background] I like to get you into a new collection of gems.


ALI: Loving this, getting into character Keith.


JACK: Mhm.


ALI: Really trying it on.


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: Before we started earnest.


JACK: And your slogan again is?


KEITH: “I find ‘em you buy ‘em”. [Ali and Sylvi shriek and laugh]


JACK: “I find’ em you buy ‘em”. Do you have a logo?


KEITH: Uh, yeah. It’s a sort of, it’s a sort of the “more you know” star [Sylvi laughs] from the PSA?


JACK: What??


KEITH: And it’s sort of like- it’s my face and I’m doing a sort of like jazz hands like fingers out, and underneath it says- well there’s two versions. There’s one that says “I find ‘em you buy ‘em”, and then there’s another version- there’s a newer version that just says “I fub”. [Sylvi and Jack laugh]


ANDREW: Yeah sure.


ALI: Jack if you are unfamiliar with the “more you know” star-


JACK: Yes, yes, I would like to know what this is.


ALI: Let me just- yeah yeah yeah. It’s a six second video, not gonna take a long time.


JACK: Mm. Oh, it’s a video! Wonderful, let me see what we got here.


ANDREW: Where did that come from?


KEITH: Where did what come from?


ANDREW: The more you know- was that like a thing from a show?


KEITH: I think it’s in an NBC thing.


ANDREW: A public service announcement, okay. That’s what it was.


JACK: I find this music cue very calming.


ALI: Oh here’s another one, Jack. I actually sent you the wrong one. This is the one that’s moving and seem to be actually used by NBC like it should’ve.


JACK: Oh, wow!


ALI: Which is somebody else.


JACK: Yeah. [Ali chuckles] This feels like the beginning to a really good Mario level or something. [Sylvi laughs] Don’t you think?


SYLVIA: I was gonna say, like a very special episode of The Sitcom. Like,


JACK: Mmm!


ANDREW: Oh, yeah.


SYLVIA: This is the music playing when it comes into the scene, where like Carlton smoked weed or something. [Ali laughs]


JACK: You have to be very serious about it.


ALI: Carlton! 


JACK: Carlton!


ALI: Your title’s weak! [Sylvi laughing] 


JACK: [singing the music cue] The more you know. Cut to the commercial Richard Fantastic comes on, I find ‘em you buy ‘em.


KEITH: Magical tyre- buy a magical tyres! Buy a! Buy my magical tyres! Good night!


JACK: Ali, do you have a name?


ALI: Yeah, I’m Granite Lead?


JACK: That’s “Leed”, not “Led”?


ALI: “Leed”, yeah lead.


JACK: Okay.


KEITH: This is the exact problem that the band thought people would have. [Ali laughs]


ALI: Here I am. People in chat keep asking if this is Grand Tableau? Austin is probably going to make that decision for us? I don’t wanna speak into a microphone that there is a hundred soda fountains in a town,


JACK: Yes. [Andrew chuckles]


ALI: And make him deal with that? So.


SYLVIA: I feel like unless it’s in a Quest game, or like, cause we confirmed through a Quest game, it’s safe to assume it’s standalone, until otherwise.


ALI: Yeah.


SYLVIA: Right?


ALI: Yeah.


JACK: Yeah I think so.


KEITH: Oh is it weird to have a town of hundreds of soda fountains?


JACK: I would love to write cheques that Austin has to cash, is the thing.


SYLVIA: Yeah!


KEITH: God, I think it would be really funny to write cheques that Austin has to cash. [chuckles, with Jack and Ali]


ALI: We already-


SYLVIA: Richard Fantastic is one hell of a cheque. [more laughing]


JACK: Okay! So we have- we know about our store, we know who we are? And now it’s time to find out what item we are going to sell. So the basic structure of this game is going to move across four phases. Which may each include one or more scenes. The phases are: 


The buyer coming into the shop to look for a particular item which we’re going to you know, decide what it is now. 


Discovering the problem with the item. 


Phase three, trying to resolve the problem with the item. 


And phase four, the sale of the item.


So the way I understand it, we are going to roll and kind of determine what the item is prior to playing the scene where the person comes in, is that how other people have read it?


SYLVIA: That makes sense to me.


KEITH: Read it?


ALI: Yeah.


SYLVIA: Just because like, knowing the item can help us figure out like the character that’s buying?


JACK: Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah, definitely. And it might give us some sort of hooks to get into later scenes.


SYLVIA: Mhm.


JACK: So once we’ve determined this about the item- well let’s determine the item first I suppose. To determine what the buyer wants, roll a D12 on the table below. Would someone like to read out what the options on this table are?


ANDREW: I can do that. Alright, so the items are: sword, shield, goblet, tapestry, gauntlet, ring, talisman, necklace, gems, book, crown, and if we roll as 12, then we roll twice.


JACK: Well I don’t know whether this means we just then roll again, or whether or not it means we roll two numbers and say this is a shield ring, or this is a-


ANDREW: I like the latter-


KEITH: Yes, I think it’s that.


SYLVIA: Yeah, no it has to be that.


KEITH: Or, it could also be referring to the classic snack pastry to roll twice.


ALI: Mmm.


JACK: Yes that’s true.


KEITH: Which is a chocolate and a strawberry roll covered in chocolate. [Sylvi laughs]


JACK: And let me tell you, here is a problem where the- um, okay! And to determine what’s wrong with the items, we roll another D12 on the table below. Does anybody else want to say what the potential problems with this item are?


SYLVIA: Sure! Do you- potential problems are: broken, cursed, lost, missing pieces, enchanted, stolen, owner found you, cops found you, not what it appears to be, illusory, is a mimic, and once again, to roll twice.


KEITH: Look it’s not a problem if you picked an item out of the cursed section that it has a curse! [Jack chuckles]


ALI: Yeah…


JACK: I mean at that point if it’s not cursed, then we need to get it cursed, right? It’s like-


KEITH: Right! [laughs] You said that this necklace was cursed!


JACK: It works perfectly fine to me, I am simply not going to buy it unless it’s cursed. Dre, do you want to roll a D12 and we’ll find out what item we’ve got here?


ANDREW: Sure! [rolling sound] That is a three-


JACK: Oh! So it’s-


ANDREW: Goblet!


JACK: Goblet of some kind. Interesting. And Sylvi, do you wanna find out what’s wrong with it?


SYLVIA: Sure, yeah! I think that’s a good job for me. [rolling sound]


KEITH: This goblet’s actually a roll-twice.


JACK: Oh shit! Okay.


ANDREW: Oh god, I can’t believe Lil Jon’s pimp cup is in our tavern and he’s come back to get it.


JACK: Owner found you. Okay! So we have a goblet that has been traced back [Ali giggles] to us.


SYLVIA: Can I make a suggestion about the person coming into the shop?


JACK: Oh totally! 


SYLVIA: It’s their goblet, and they just found it here?


JACK: Oh shit! [laughs] Why would they not just- why would we not just immediately sell it to them?


SYLVIA: Well that’s what we need to do!


KEITH: Right. But they want to just have it for free.


SYLVIA: Yeah, like, hey wait a minute- if that idea is too much, we can find another thing, I just thought it was funny.


JACK: No it’s good!


ANDREW: No I like that.


JACK: Someone- so, I mean this kind of solves- do we want to flesh out what this goblet is, or do we want to start going into scenes?


ALI: I mean we can- we can describe this goblet if we want? What do we think it looks like? How many fluid ounces do you think this goblet holds?


JACK: Is it very big? Or is it very small.


KEITH: Goblet- I would say goblet tends to be non-standard, so I’m gonna say 14 and a half ounces. Which is kinda weird now.


SYLVIA: I was gonna say 8, that’s way more.


ALI: 14 and a half?


ANDREW: Yeah I feel like if it’s recognisable as someone’s goblet, it’s either way too big, or very very small.


KEITH: Yeah. For me, any goblet worth selling can hold more than one can of soda.


ALI: Yeah.


ANDREW: Sure.


ALI: But a little bit less than like a 20 ounce.


KEITH: Right. For sure. [Ali chuckles] That would be- that would spill it over. [Ali laughs]


JACK: You do not want that. Other than aspirationally? When I think it is the thing you absolutely do want. In practice, no.


KEITH: No.


JACK: Is it gold?


KEITH: Sure looks gold.


JACK: Sure looks gold, okay!


SYLVIA: At the very least it’s shiny.


JACK: Mhm.


SYLVIA: Is there like a design or anything on it?


JACK: Yes, there is, a- there is a raised embossing of a unicorn fighting a dragon?


SYLVIA: Fuck yes!


JACK: On it?


ANDREW: Oh hell yeah.


JACK: And underneath it is a- which is the seal of the family, that we presumably took it from? And… underneath it is the family’s motto. Which is, “wealth is never lost forever”.


SYLVIA: Are we also selling airbrushed t-shirts of the fight happening on the goblet?


JACK: Yeah totally, we love this goblet! 


ANDREW: Can it- can it be like, it is either holographic, or enchanted in some way that as you like turn the goblet to different angles, like it’s, you see the fight playing out?


JACK: Was that something that Richard added to it?


ANDREW: Oooh.


JACK: This sort of- this [chuckles] off the market-


KEITH: This mirage sort of look.


SYLVIA: Added the-


KEITH: Yes! Yes.


SYLVIA: The Captain Underpants Flip-O-Matic to it. [Friends burst out chuckling]


ANDREW: What the f-!


KEITH: What are you talking about?


SYLVIA: Don’t worry about it. If you got it, you got it.
[t/s note: love you Sylvi, absolutely got it]


KEITH: Is this just a Captain Underpants branded flip book where you-?


SYLVIA: No it’s literally just in the Captain Underpants books they have like flip book sections where you moved it back and forth to make it look like it was animated.


ANDREW: Ohhh!


KEITH: Mmkay.


ALI: Sure.


SYLVIA: Yeah.


ANDREW: Was it like a little tab you could move back and forth at the bottom of the page?


SYLVIA: Yeah- what? What’s up Jack?


JACK: I have- can I make a suggestion to add to your idea of the owner wants to buy it back?


SYLVIA: For sure, yeah!


KEITH: The owner is Captain Underpants.


JACK: That’s not gonna be my suggestion! What if you know, like one second flashback of us all in some fucking abandoned, haunted house type situation taking the goblet from the kitchen, someone slaying a revenant in the background or whatever. What if, the only surviving member of this family has come to buy the goblet back, and the things that have found us and are coming for us are the vengeful ghosts of the people who forged the goblet?


[00:45:00]


SYLVIA: Ooh!


ANDREW: Oooh.


JACK: So like, we can sell it to this person, but also there are many- it’s a haunted goblet. 


SYLVIA: There are- there is like a dispute going on about who owns it, the ghosts, or the-


JACK: The scion or whatever.


SYLVIA: Exactly, yeah.


KEITH: Or apparently, us.


JACK: Right, or us! Because we don’t have to.


ANDREW: It’s true.


JACK: Well, so. The game ends when we successfully sell this item. Don’t know if the book says we have to sell it to the buyer.


KEITH: Oh just one, we only have the sell a whole- one item for this whole book- for this whole game. 


ALI: Uh huh.


JACK: Oh it does say, when you’ve successfully sold the item to your buyer, or if one of the party members uses their class skills, which remember you can use to re-roll the dice when there is a challenge. If you use them to re-roll more than five times during the game, if you do so the game ends, and the person who did it returns to the life of adventuring, unable to resist the siren song of their old occupation.


So that’s how we can sort this out! We make the sale, or one of us gets drawn back into the- [chuckles] into the light.


SYLVIA: Okay.


JACK: Before we begin, do we want to take five minutes?


ANDREW: Sure.


SYLVIA: That’s actually great, so I can refill my water.


JACK: Ya, okay. So, let’s take five minutes, and head back!


KEITH: Sure.


ANDREW: Yeah.


KEITH: Hello.


JACK: What’s up everybody? We’ve returned.


ALI: We’re here.


JACK: We are here. Ready to- ready to meet our potential buyer. What are- what are y’all doing when the last surviving member of the Bloodthorn estate walks into the shop?


ALI: Um, I’m probably dusting? 


KEITH: Can I be doing something incriminating, like [someone stifles a laugh] polishing off like a “property of the blank family” off of a bunch of different other items? [Andrew and Jack laugh]


JACK: Of cutlery, and like one of a painting. 


KEITH: I don’t have to do something that extremely complicates things right off the bat.


JACK: I don’t know! She might not notice I suppose. Mimi and Khunk?


SYLVIA: I think Mimi is currently sitting on a stool, enjoying a little sandwich for her lunch break.


ALI: Hell yeah.


KEITH: Wow, what’s in the sandwich?


SYLVIA: Uhh, I didn’t think this far. I think it’s a good old cheese. They have grilled cheese in this world.


KEITH: Great.


ALI: Oh hell yeah.


SYLVIA: In this fantasy world.


KEITH: With accompanying soup, or just solo grilled cheese?


SYLVIA: So I’ve like never been a soup with grilled cheese person, but I’m trying to get out of my comfort zone?


KEITH: Not even tomato, huh?


SYLVIA: So I think she’s probably got a tomato soup or something- no! I’m saying Mimi-


KEITH: Okay, it’s Mimi.


SYLVIA: So like, you know. You gotta make sure-


KEITH: Great, you get a nice, high-quality tomato bisque,


ANDREW: Ooooh.


KEITH: With the grilled cheese, multiple kinds of cheeses in there, just to give it some body. Oh, that’s good!


ANDREW: Speakin’ my language here.


KEITH: Nothing better than pulling a part of a grilled cheese and being like, I can see three different cheeses in there.


ALI: Oh yeah.


JACK: That’s the way.


ANDREW: I’m imagining that our second floor of the stall has like a like, is like almost like a balcony or something? And I am hanging off the edge of the balcony doing pull-ups.


JACK: Oh!


KEITH: Sick.


JACK: Incredible!


KEITH: In the silk robes?


ANDREW: Uh huh! Yeah.


JACK: I think the shop bell rings, and coming through the door is a young woman who is maybe you know, she is in her early to mid twenties, she has dark skin, she has her hair tied back. She’s wearing what looks like a sort of um, almost like a cavalry officer’s jacket, or she’s dressed very smartly, has very, you know her posture is very straight and she approaches the counter and without looking up at whoever’s at the counter, just rings the bell on the counter? 


(as Bloodthorn scion): Hello.


ALI:
(as Granite): Hi! How can I help you? Welcome to my store!


JACK: Yeah, good point! [Ali laughs] Good point. 


ALI (as Granite): Welcome to the store you’re already in.


JACK (as Bloodthorn): And the store is called…


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh that’s a great- mm, we should’ve thought of that, huh. 


[Ali chuckles]


KEITH (as Richard): We should’ve thought of that.


ALI (as Granite): It’s called,


KEITH (as Richard): No one’s ever asked, it’s been years!


JACK (as Bloodthorn): Well I suppose you can consider me the first. It’s something to think about, had I not seen the many piles of goods stacked outside your shop, I would not have thought that it was the kind of place where what I am looking for. But I have heard that this shop has a very good range of goblets on offer, and there is one particular goblet that I am looking for myself. 


ALI (as Granite): What are you in the market for, goblet-wise?


JACK (as Bloodthorn): I am looking for a goblet that is- I would say between twelve and fifteen fluid ounces in capacity.


[Sylvi laughs in the background]


ALI: Mhm.


DRE: Mmm.


JACK (as Bloodthorn): It’s gold, it has an embossing of unicorn fighting a dragon on it. And then above that, is my family motto.


ALI (as Granite): Oh! Um, sure, yeah, let me show you our gold goblets here. As you can see, there is quite a few here-


DRE (as Khunk): Twenty-four!


[Ali and Jack laugh]


Twenty-five!


KEITH: I’m rubbing off “the property of” sign that’s saying “twenty-four”, and putting on next to me “twenty-five”.


ALI (as Granite): You’ll just have to watch Khunk’s feet here, but if you just go right under there,


DRE (as Khunk) [overlapping]: Well hold on!


KEITH: Barefoot.


ALI: 
(as Granite): You’ll see our goblets. And yeah, as you can see, we have all of our fourteen- [laughs] We have all of our goblets that’s between ten and fifteen fluid ounces on the third shelf here. And you said a unicorn fighting a dragon, I believe we have something like that. 


And Granite Lead, you know, reaches for [laughs] the goblet, the goblet, and pulls it down.


(as Granite): Would this fit your fancy?


JACK: I think that this woman’s name is Cecily? Cecily Bloodthorn. And she reaches into her top pocket, and pulls out like a tiny pair of like jeweler’s glasses almost. Fixes them over her nose, and looks at the goblet, and then you know, looks up at you, and says,


(as Cecily): Where did you get this goblet?


ALI:
(as Granite): Um well, [chuckles] my friends and I were in an enchanted cave,


That’s what you said Jack, right? I didn’t write that part of the goblet lore down.


JACK [overlapping]: I thought it was like, the ruins of the Bloodthorn estate-


DRE [overlapping]: Yeah I thought we said like a haunted house or something, yeah.


JACK: But I love the idea of a cave beneath the Bloodthorn estate [Ali laughs].


ALI: 
(as Granite): We were in the ruins of a cave beneath a very old home and, you know, [chuckles] it’s an amazing piece. And we couldn’t leave it behind, because what a waste.


JACK: Okay,


KEITH: 
(as Richard): We were also running from an army of vengeful ghosts.


ANDREW: 
(as Khunk): Yeah you’re leaving out the best part of the story here Granite, and that’s when you single handedly turned on the- oh, the big- what was your big old flashlight thing that you had?


ALI: 
(as Granite): My divine staff.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Yes, that would-! Yeah! It incinerated everything! It was incredible.


ALI (as Granite): Mm. Well, I, you know, we don’t like to say the gory details as it were. This goblet is-


KEITH (as Richard) [overlapping]: Do we not like to say that, are we not supposed to be saying those? I think every one of our objects has a story to tell!


[Jack laughs]


People love to hear those stories!


JACK: And I think that Cecily just says,


(as Cecily): And in this case, this story is mine.


KEITH: 
(as Richard): No it’s our story.


ANDREW (as Khunk): No I don’t think you were there.


[Ali laughs]


KEITH (as Richard): Yeah, I would’ve remembered you.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I wrote a whole song about it and you didn’t come up.


KEITH (as Richard): I remember the ghosts, and I remember the- well I remember the flashlight. 


ALI (as Granite): Fern staff.


SYLVIA:
(as Mimi): If I’m being honest, I think all the people we ran into there were already dead.


Important detail, I wanna mention by the way, about Mimi, because she’s come up to talk to everyone? Whenever she takes a step, one of the cymbals on her back makes a noise? [friends chuckle] It’s just like, [makes cymbal noises, Ali laughs]. Like hi-hats closing over and over [Andrew chuckles].


JACK: [chuckles] I think Cecily says- god, she says,


(as Cecily): I will be taking the goblet and restoring it to the vault in my family’s second home. After the tragedy of the darkness in our first, we’ve built a substantial treasure and storage chamber. And as the last surviving member of my line, I think that it’s only right that it’s returned there. 


So if you could box that up for me, I will be taking it forthwith. I obviously have no means to pay, but that’s fantastic because I see no need to-


SYLVIA: 
(as Mimi): You just said you had a treasure-


ANDREW (as Khunk): Yeah-


SYLVIA (as Mimi): You have a treasure room! 


ANDREW (as Khunk): And there’s a vault?


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Come on!


KEITH (as Richard): Yeah.


JACK (as Cecily): I don’t carry treasure around with me.


KEITH (as Richard): Well you were trying to buy back your goblet.


JACK (as Cecily): Oh! There’s been a misunderstanding [chuckles]. I’m not here to buy back my goblet. I’m here to take it. So if you could-


KEITH (as Richard): Oh.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh! So you wanna fight us and rob us! Okay, hold on!


[Ali and Keith laugh]


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Uh oh. She got Khunk started.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh it’s good! I got a pump going, we’re fine, let’s go! Come on!


JACK (as Cecily): Sir, I have no intention of fighting with you and in fact I have documents back that prove that this document is mine. So, if you’re not prepared to relinquish-


ANDREW (as Khunk): Of course the documents are yours, you brought them.


[Ali laughs]


That’s- that’s not a problem.


JACK: Just like, bemusement flashes across Cecily’s face for a second, she’s like- she was not expecting this.


(as Cecily): I’ll make it simple. Either you hand over the goblet to me now, or I go and make a very clear case to Judge uh- to Judge Rex-


KEITH:
(as Richard): Sounds like you don’t know Judge Rex very well.


JACK: Well I, Jack, don’t- [friends laugh]


(as Cecily): Judge Rex spoke at my wedding.


Says Cecily.


(as Cecily): And I am sure that he will support my recovery of the property that belongs to me. Now, I will give you one-


ALI:
(as Granite): Well,


JACK:
(as Cecily): -further chance. Box the goblet up, wrap the box with a ribbon, and hand it over to me now or I will-


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh, now there’s a bow, okay!


SYLVIA (as Mimi): What about finder’s fee?


ANDREW (as Khunk): There is a ribbon fee as well.


ALI (as Granite): Uh huh. We have very um, exquisite gift-wrapping you understand and there is a certain investment that we put into that that we expect back, so we can’t just give out our gift wrapping.


KEITH (as Richard) [overlapping]: All free items must be wrapped with two hundred gold ribbons. 


[Friends laugh out loud]


ALI (as Granite): And this Judge Rex that you speak of, we had this goblet certified by one of Judge Rex’s understudies. And there was no mention of the last surviving member of the Bloodthorn estate, so, this is our legal property.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Yeah, wait, how did- how do we even know you’re a part of the Bloodthorn estate? Because like to get into this whole old place, I had to pretend to be part of the Bloodthorn estate, and that was like years ago, and it worked great, so who knows if you’re pulling the same thing or not?


JACK: [chuckles] Oh man! I think that she unbuttons the top couple of buttons of her jacket [someone grumbles] to reveal that you know, around- [Andrew laughs] around her neck is a tattoo that is moving. The tattoo is sort of wriggling its way around her neck, it is a sort of tableau of a unicorn fighting a dragon. And then you know flashing underneath it is the motto “wealth is never lost forever”.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): [sighs] You know those things are forever right, kid?


[Ali chuckles]


JACK: She just says.


(as Cecily): Forever.


Yeah, I think she is, you know, if you’re not going to give it over to her, she is going to make good on her word to you know, return in the coming days with some sort of, I don’t know, some sort of fucked up fantasy like warrant, or whatever?


ANDREW: Writ?


JACK: Yeah, writ, claiming that this thing is hers? You know, whether- I suppose the alternative here is finding a way to sell it back to her. Or, you know, handle the problem that is about to be discovered.


KEITH: What if we try to sell it to someone else, and then it’s their problem.


JACK: That’s a good- that’s a great point!


ANDREW: Mhm. [Ali chuckles]


JACK: I suppose she would try to recover it as stolen goods, at that point it would be, you know she’s clearly tracked it down to this place. But you know, selling it to somebody else and now they’re pursued by- oh, we’ll see!


KEITH: We’ll see.


JACK: I don’t know! Shop bell dings as a horse you know, you see Cecily riding out of the market square off towards presumably some fucking dinner with Judge Rex or whatever.


KEITH: 
(as Richard): Alright. Brainstorm time, no bad ideas. 


[01:00:00]


(as Richard): We can sell it to someone- I already got we can sell it to someone else,


ANDREW: 
(as Khunk): Sure.


KEITH: 
(as Richard): And then it’s their problem. And then I’ll add one more in, we could forge a new one and give her the forged one, and then keep the real one. Those are my two ideas.


ANDREW: 
(as Khunk): Okay. Oh, these are-


JACK: I think that Kark kind of like unfolds himself from the bannister where he’s sort of been camouflaged like a stick insect-


KEITH: Oh! [Sylvi chuckles] 


JACK: -watching the situation unfold.


KEITH: 
(as Richard): Oh, I thought you were gone and we were going to have to explain this whole thing to you.


JACK (as Kark): I was resting in the bannister.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh, hope I didn’t cause you any stress there, bud.


JACK (as Kark): Different bannister.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Okay.


JACK (as Kark): My proposal. We take Cecily out of the picture. None of this is a problem anymore.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Like, kill? Like, [clacks] kill.


JACK (as Kark): Like kill.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh! I thought you meant like, she was painted on the goblet, I just missed it. Okay, alright. Okay.


JACK (as Kark): But I suppose following the incidents of last year, killing customers is-


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Yeah we had to-


KEITH (as Richard): Frowned upon company policy.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Lot of sort of like damage control after that whole thing.


ALI (as Granite): We made an agreement, no more killing customers!


KEITH (as Richard): New company policy forbids it explicitly.

ANDREW (as Khunk): Yeah I don’t know, this one’s pretty rude though! I’m uh-


ALI (as Granite): Rude people live full lives!


ANDREW (as Khunk): Yeah, but!


ALI (as Granite): And I-


ANDREW (as Khunk) [overlapping]: By being rude to other people! Alright, maybe we don’t kill her right now, but let’s go like, wherever she’s having dinner, let’s see if she tips.


[Ali laughs]


KEITH (as Richard): We said no bad ideas, I’ll put it on the board, but there is a star next to it.


ALI (as Granite): What if we just- we can just, maybe we give it to her, but we convince her to buy something else of equal value but then we charge it twice- this is not a good idea. [laughs] We charge her twice as much for it! And then, you know. Even-stevens.


KEITH (as Richard): She said she didn’t have any money.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Yeah, she’s lying.


JACK: 
(as Kark): She said she didn’t have any money on her, that is clearly a very rich woman. I doubt that she was carrying a coin purse, she clearly had no intention of buying it. Anyway if you’re going to be rude about my idea.


Like bark-eyes narrow, shrinks back into the bannister again.


ALI: 
(as Granite): I’m just saying, we’ve talked about it already about killing customers!


JACK (as Kark): [grumbles]


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Nobody said she doesn't deserve it Kark, we just said it’s against the rules, okay?


KEITH (as Richard): Well what if we found out whoever told her that we had her goblet, and we kill them?


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oooh, okay!


JACK (as Kark): Oh, alright!


KEITH (as Richard): Cause that’s not a customer.


JACK: What is the- all the lights go out. [Sylvia laughs] Keith.


KEITH: Say it again?


JACK: All of the- all of the lights go out. A darkness descends on the shop, the previously unnamed shop. Who wants to be a ghost or some ghosts? 


KEITH: I’ll be a ghost! In my- is anybody being a ghost with me, or am I the solo- am I the ghost representative?


ALI: You know what Keith, take it. Take it.


SYLVIA: Yeah. I trust you.


ANDREW: Yeah just roll with it Keith.


JACK: Can I give you a note Keith, actually?


KEITH: Yeah.


JACK: Uh not-solo ghost representative, can you be a host- ghost hosts- the collect- the trio.


KEITH: I’m a trio of ghosts. [Ali wheezing] Okay.


ANDREW: Cerberus ghost.


KEITH: Okay yeah, I can be a trio of ghosts. And my motivation is just so that I get this, the backstory here, I want this goblet for us.


JACK [overlapping]: We stole the goblet. Yeah, we stole the goblet from you, presumably.


KEITH: I’m the disease- I’m the deceased, I’m the revenant spirits of the Bloodthorn- Bloodthorn, what is it?


JACK: Yeah, Bloodthorn.


KEITH: Bloodthorn family, and we want the goblet for- to calm our dead souls and not for the present day living descendant of the Bloodthorns.


JACK: I- I think so, right?


KEITH: Okay.


SYLVIA: Yeah.


KEITH: [clears throat] Thunder noise. [makes thunder noise] [Sylvi and Jack laugh] [more thunder noises: Pschoo! Pschoo!]


(as Ghost 1): [in a dramatic, old voice] After all this time, the goblet has shown itself!


SYLVIA:
        (as Mimi): Kark, stop doing weird voices.


JACK:
(as Kark): It’s not me.


Just like, an eye opens on the bannister as Kark wakes up to see what’s going on.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): [in a more high-pitched voice] After all this time, the goblet appears at the hands of these adventurers! 


ANDREW (as Khunk): Okay Kark, you’re doing a really good job with throwing your voice, but come on now.


JACK (as Kark): It’s not me, I’m not the ghost.


ANDREW (as Khunk): We’re having a very serious planning session.


ALI (as Granite): [hesitant] Hello, we’re the adventurers!


KEITH (as Ghost 1): The owners of the goblet. The owners of the goblet are us, not you! Not the Bloodthorn woman.


ALI (as Granite): Um.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh! You’re familiar with her?


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Mmm. A pretender.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh, she’s fake-sies, huh?


[Jack chuckles]


KEITH (as Ghost 2): Fake-sies! She’s fake-sies!


[Ali laughs]


ANDREW (as Khunk): Ah, she’s like the Fugazi Bloodthorns, I gotcha, okay.


[Sylvia laugh]


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Fugazi Bloodthorns. Pretenders!


ANDREW (as Khunk): Alright, so uh, who are yous guys?


KEITH (as Ghost 1): We are the true Bloodthorns, the owners of the goblet.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh boy, okay.


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Our weary souls have wandered the lands-


ANDREW (as Khunk) [overlapping]: You’re gonna show me your tattoo now?


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Ever since it was stolen from our cave!


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Sorry about that.


KEITH (as Ghost 1): We extremely hate that it was taken from us.


ALI (as Granite): Oh.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Granite. Granite I thought you took care of these guys.


ALI (as Granite) I, you know. I did some divine magic, but. [chuckles] Maybe it expired? Maybe it was a ten year spell?


ANDREW (as Khunk): Mmm.


ALI (as Granite): Um how, how can we, um, calm the spirits of the Bloodthorn goblet estate?


KEITH (as Ghost 2): We must have the goblet! We must have the goblet now!


JACK (as Kark): Oh no, we can’t do that.


KEITH (as Ghost 2): We will take the goblet in exchange for your lives!


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Okay, well.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh no, let’s not get rude here, come on.


JACK (as Kark): No we can’t do that, no.


ALI (as Granite): Maybe in exchange-


SYLVIA (as Mimi): We usually deal in gold.


ALI (as Granite): -for some currency?


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Yeah.


KEITH (as Ghost 2): Currency? We have no use for currency! 


ANDREW (as Khunk): You got any other treasures you’re not really using? A little tit for tat.


KEITH (as Ghost 2): The Bloodthorn goblet was the last of our vast treasures! We must have it!


[Ali and Sylvi laughing, Jack chuckling]


SYLVIA: [wheezing] Oh my god.


ALI:
(as Granite): We paid rent on this stand you know, so. 


JACK (as Kark): Oh no. Yeah, yeah. Are you not having to pay rent-


KEITH (as Ghost 2) [overlapping]: Rent on this stand, what is that? What is rent on this stand?


[Ali wheezes]


ANDREW (as Khunk): Alright, look. Like a money. A money.


JACK (as Kark): Yeah, every- Bill Clock comes by every month and we have to pay him four hundred-


KEITH (as Ghost 2): You repeatedly pay for the space?


ANDREW (as Khunk): I know it’s a wreckin’, right?


JACK (as Kark): We don’t ask for-


KEITH (as Ghost 2): The legion does not understand! 


ALI (as Granite): You know they take care of the entrance way, and they shovel when there’s snow-


JACK (as Kark) [overlapping]: Yeah I can take care of it, Granite, like-


KEITH (as Ghost 2): Goblet goblet! Distraction!


[Jack chuckles]


ALI (as Granite): Can I- maybe I can try to do-


ANDREW (as Khunk): Yeah get the flashlight, kid!


[Ali, Sylvia, Jack laughs]


KEITH (as Ghost 2): Who is the flashlight kid? Were you not the flashlight kid?


[Jack is unintelligible]


ALI: Yeah, maybe I go to where the register is, and I reach underneath it and there’s like a big chest under there. [Jack chuckles]


KEITH: There’s more thunder. Psshh! Psshh! [Ali laughs] Pchooo!


ALI: It’s like a staff that’s in two pieces, and I’m like frantically like screwing the two pieces together as like,


JACK: Oh my god. Upstairs a suit of armour comes to life. [Ali chuckles] Clackering around.

ALI: I, you know- maybe, what kind of divine magic do I wanna do right here? Do I wanna try to calm the spirits? 


SYLVIA: I- so I had a thing that I was gonna suggest but couldn’t really- we were all in character and it would be rude to say in front of the ghost. What if we trapped them in the goblet and give her a haunted goblet?


ANDREW: Oh shit!


JACK: Oh shit!

SYLVIA: Or charge her for an extra-


ALI [overlapping]: Oh like a family reunion!


SYLVIA: Yeah like a family reunion! [Ali laughs]


ANDREW: Mhm.


JACK: I mean this would kind of be a multi-step, we would probably need to- this sounds like it would be a multi-step clock [Ali chuckles, Sylvi laughs] of problems, right? Where it’s like, we can’t roll once, trap the thing and then sell it and then we go home.


SYLVIA: Oh sure!


ANDREW: Oh yeah yeah yeah.


ALI: How many segments of this clock do you think that there should be, Jack?


KEITH: 
(as Ghost 2): One thousand segments! 


[Ali and Jack laugh]


SYLVIA:
(as Mimi): Not you, legion. God!


JACK: 
(as Ghost 3) [overlapping]: Each segment put into another one thousand segments.


KEITH: 
(as Ghost 1) [overlapping]: It would take easily one thousand segments to defeat us.


[Andrew laughing]


ALI: Maybe a four? A four or a six-


JACK: I was going to say I think this is a four-step clock. I’m realising now that when Austin says “I think this needs to be a multi-step clock” he then needs to come up with how many steps it is?


ALI: Mhm.


JACK: Whereas usually I just get to hear him say “this should be a clock” and then,


ALI: Right, well I’ve made the clock, so we have-


JACK: Sick.


KEITH: That’s a good first clock, Ali.


ALI: Thank you!


JACK: Surely this is not Ali’s first clock!


ALI: [chuckles] I think this might be my first clock made in-


SYLVIA: Aw!


ALI: You know, mostly have the clocks provided to me by Austin underscore.


JACK: Yeah. The clockmaker. [Ali laughs] Okay. Alright. So do you think this is a roll, Ali? To try and- yeah, what is your goal here? Like what is this- what’s step 1?


ALI: I- maybe, ooh! Maybe we’re not- mmm. I was gonna say maybe what I wanna do is like, I wanna like move the spirits into like an object or whatever, so they’re easier to talk to? 


JACK: Mm!


ALI: But I feel like that’s just- why have a middle-man, [chuckles]


JACK: Right, yeah.


ALI: Like I put them into a doll or something so we can have a sit-down conversation, when I can just put them into the goblet and then we know that they're in the goblet, and then we work on Step 2 of the clock.


JACK: Yeah, which is like sealing them in the goblet or-


KEITH [overlapping]: I find the ghost extremely easy to talk to, I don’t know.


[Friends laugh]


ALI: I, you know, the conversation was just losing threads there. They were going a little, agitated.


JACK: They were getting a little, yeah. [Ali laughs] To the thousand years of fury. [Keith laughs]


ALI: Yeah, I think Granite says.


(as Granite): You know if you like the goblet so much, you can have it!


And then, [laughs] [Jack laughs]


KEITH: 
(as Ghost 2): Thank you living being!


ALI: [giggles] She you know, slams her staff down, and it starts glowing with unnatural light of divine power. And I’m gonna roll a 1D12.


JACK: Yeah a 1D12 here. We’re looking for a- one is a spectacular failure, two to four is a failure, [rolling sound] five to eight partial success,


ALI: Oooh!


JACK: Nine to eleven success, twelve is a spectacular success.


ALI: So I’ve done, I’ve got a partial success here, that was a six!


JACK: Mm!


KEITH: Now what are the consequences- what does it mean that it’s partial?


ANDREW: I have an idea.


ALI: Oh?


ANDREW: The ghosts are in the goblet, but they’re all on the outside, and you can still constantly hear and see that they are on the outside of the goblet. [Ali laughs]


JACK: Just like a horrible, whirling mess-


KEITH [overlapping]:  So we’re like, orbiting and swirling around the goblet?


JACK: Yeah!


ANDREW: Yeah, like one is like riding the unicorn, two more are like on top of the dragon it’s fighting.


ALI: That seems fun for them!


JACK: Yeah. Oh! And maybe it is an impermanent trap is the other thing. Like this will wear off in let’s say, what’s a fun time for it. Let’s say this will wear of in eighteen hours, [Ali chuckles] and the ghosts will be free.


SYLVIA: Sorry I cut out after they were on the goblet, so they’re like visible on it?


JACK: Yeah they’re vibing.


SYLVIA: Okay, I’ve been there.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): You cannot contain my ghostly tableau!


[Ali laughs, Sylvi laughs]


JACK: I think-


ANDREW: And it’s temporary right? We said it’s eighteen hours?


JACK: Yeah, eighteen hours-


ANDREW: And then they get out.


JACK: Kark says.


(as Kark): Ah, now we fucked it. That looks like they’re only trapped in there for between fifteen to twenty hours.


ANDREW 
(as Khunk): That’s oddly specific.


[Ali chuckles]


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I mean-


JACK (as Kark): I’ve seen this happen before.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Kark’s a great judge of time.


JACK (as Kark): Yeah, they- look. I’m basically a tree. They trapped me in there and, I was trapped in the tree for between fifteen to twenty hours and then I got out and then I tore them to pieces. And I imagine that as much as it- ghost, you’re going to tear us out of pieces when you get out of there, right?


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Yes.


[Friends stifle laughter]


JACK (as Kark): But you can’t right now because of the spell, right?


KEITH (as Ghost 1): [growls]


JACK (as Kark): He doesn’t wanna say, he doesn’t wanna say because it’s embarrassing to him. But he’s trapped in there. But only for eighteen hours, so,


[Sylvi laughs]


ALI (as Granite): Sometimes for divine favours, and you know they only have eighteen hours worth of grace.


JACK (as Kark): Right right right.


ALI (as Granite): To provide that day, okay.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Yeah, like-


JACK (as Kark): I’m not-


ANDREW (as Khunk): Hey, listen-


JACK (as Kark): I’m not saying it’s anybody’s fault.


ANDREW (as Khunk): No.


JACK (as Kark): I’m not saying it’s anybody’s fault especially not Granite’s. But, like, if it was somebody’s- I’m basically saying that we have to move with some haste, or we will get shredded.


KEITH (as Ghost 2): The goblet is ours we will have it!


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I mean Khunk’s already shredded.


ALI (as Granite) [overlapping]: Yeah, you’re on it!


KEITH (as Ghost 2): Have it and- have it and take it!


ALI (as Granite): We can sit on this on the shelf with all the other gold goblets.


KEITH (as Ghost 2): We will sit in our cave and ponder its glory.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Okay but it looks pretty fun to be on that unicorn though.


KEITH (as Ghost 2): We don’t have fun.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): That’s sad.


ALI (as Granite): That’s too bad.


ANDREW (as Khunk): That sounds like a you problem, buddy, come on. Take a binge to the time you have.


JACK: You marking the clock?


ALI: Oh no, but it- was that a? I guess that’s a, that was a full-


JACK: You used a skill but you didn’t- no, I think it’s only if you re-roll using the skill.


ALI: Oh, to- when you marked that you’ve used it?


[01:15:00]


ANDREW: Oh right! Cause you- since you were using your skill you then roll twice, actually.


JACK [overlapping]: So it’s like let’s say you rolled a three or whatever- oh shit, that’s right!


ANDREW: Yeah, so you, I think like, you can just roll twice and take the highest number since you’re using your character skill.


ALI: Now hang on. Wait- sorry! [giggles]


JACK: So!


ANDREW: Right, isn’t that how it works?


JACK: Yeah, so it’s like. You may re-roll a dice if you are performing something that is related to your class skill. This absolutely sounds related to Granite’s class skill, so they may re-roll it. If you may re-roll your class skill, you may re-roll and take the higher of the two rolls. But beware, if you use your class skill too much, it could cause trouble for you later on. If you use it five times, the game ends.


ALI: Okay so I have to mark it just because I’ve used it? But I do have the option to-


JACK: No, no, you would only mark it if you re-rolled it.


ALI: No it says if, if you use your class skill too much, it will cause trouble later on, cause-


ANDREW: Yeah


KEITH: Well I think it said-


JACK: Oh yeah that’s true.


ALI: There’s no way this game works where you have to use it ten times to have it be over instead of five, right?


ANDREW: Right, right, yeah.


KEITH: Oh, I thought we were saying it only counts as using your class skill if you roll twice, like.


ANDREW [overlapping]: I think the way that this is supposed to go- yeah. No I-


KEITH: It- but-


ANDREW: I think the way we should have done this is that Ali rolled twice because she’s using her class skill.


JACK: Right right right.


ALI: I can just roll again. One D12. [rolling sound] That’s a four.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): A miserable failure!

JACK: That’s a four. Okay so yeah, we would have got the six anyway.


KEITH
        (as Ghost 1): No progress has been made!


[Jack and Ali chuckle]


JACK: Oh god. Okay, so I was thinking about how we could just structure like going around the scenes, and like do we just do it like you know, passing one scene each to try and get our way to the problem? Unless there’s a clear thing [someone coughs] to do?


ALI: Yeah. I mean I feel like what this reveals is like, we should be rolling more often, because we should also be rolling when we’re not using our class skills?


JACK: Oh yeah.


ANDREW: Yeah.


JACK: True. Yeah, you’re right. 


ALI: So.


JACK: Maybe there should be a higher clock. Although who’s to say whether a second worst clock- [Ali chuckles]


SYLVIA: The, fuck what was her name? 


JACK: Oh the scion? Cecily.


SYLVIA: Cecily! Thank you. I was like Celia’s not right. She’s coming back at some point tonight right?


JACK: She’s coming back in the coming- she’s basically said I’m gonna get a fucking writ and I’m gonna come back and get it. I don’t think she’s gonna come back tonight because she’s-


SYLVIA: Oh okay.


JACK: She’s got dinner or something.


ANDREW: Mmm.


SYLVIA: Drop off the ghost cup at dinner, it’s your problem now!


ANDREW: That’s not a bad idea.


SYLVIA: Well I was thinking like, we should get these two to talk and be like, as you see we have two people claiming to own the item, and in that case we can’t give it away to either of you and you’ll have to start bidding.


JACK: Oh shit! Oh shit.


ANDREW: I guess this is the perfect idea let’s go crash a dinner party [chuckles].


JACK: Mm! Okay. Yeah. [pauses] Yeah. [Ali chuckles] Where- I’m trying to work out what like a misanthropic tree’s best next move is here? I mean I’m really good at tracking, so I can figure out where she has gone.


KEITH: A misanthropic tree whose first move was just to kill this person.


JACK: Just kill this person, yeah. Alright, I think, I think that, yeah, do you- who proposed this plan? Is it Mimi, is like we should-


SYLVIA: Yeah, I think. Like, kind of says that, what I said in character.


(as Mimi): I mean these guys are both claiming that they own it. It seems like this is kind of, we’re getting caught in the middle of their conflict? When we’re really just the supplier here, so.


JACK:
(as Kark): Mm. Mm. Mm. I will figure out where she has gone.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Okay, well we- 


JACK (as Kark): Go on.


ANDREW (as Khunk): No we can’t- I think that’s a good idea, we just can’t walk around with the yelling cup the whole time? So-


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Ahhhh!


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Okay hold on, give me a second.


And I think Khunk goes dicking around like through a shelf and pulls out [Jack chuckles] fucking plus two duct tape and goes to [Ali laughs] duct tape-


JACK: [chuckles] Oh this is a fucking roll!


ANDREW: [laughs] Yeah!


KEITH:
        (as Ghost 1): Escape, we will plot our escape!


ANDREW:
        (as Khunk): Alright, hold on, hold on, hold still.


KEITH:
        (as Ghost 1): We will soon be free!


ANDREW: Does this count as hitting things? [chuckles]


SYLVIA: I don’t- probably not.


JACK: No, it- no.


ANDREW: No I don’t think so either. Okay I guess I’m gonna roll to see how good my duct tape job does. [rolling sound] Okay, a partial success. God, what is a partial success look like here? 


ALI: Mmmmm. [Jack chuckles] It’s not like a hundred percent sealed?


ANDREW: Right, so you can still hear them, it’s just they don’t sound like the ghosts are screaming all the time.


ALI: Mhm.


ANDREW: Okay.


JACK: And it means that the ghost- yeah I reckon it has like a forward mechanical effect of like, the ghost can’t just fuck up a conversation we’re in, necessarily? It can really try, but you know.


Okay, yeah. So I think that you know, Kark goes outside- I picture Kark moving as though he has fewer frames of animation than anybody else? And yeah, opens up the door, and goes outside, and hm. I think I’m going to roll before I figure out how the tracking works.


ANDREW: That makes sense.


JACK: So this is roll, roll 2D6- 2D12.


ANDREW: Right, and take the higher one.


JACK: Yeah. And mark off the thing. [rolling sound] Oh fuck me! Right, I rolled a 5 and a 4. One is a failure, and one is a partial success. Oh, I know what it is! 


So this is a partial success, and, I think a caller, one of the you know, people who were just standing around, and I learn that we had thought that Cecily was going off to just like a dinner party with somebody. But instead there is a like a ball [Ali chuckles] being held on the hill, and it’s like. Why would we fucking know about this? I don’t know when Hollywood Gala balls are or whatever, but like-


KEITH: Another ball we weren’t invited to.


JACK: All the great and the good are attending. And the scope for screwing this up is pretty sufficient because like, what’s he called, Bob Clock, the landlord or something? He’s also invariably going to be there, there’s gonna be-


KEITH: Did you say Bob Clock?


JACK: Yeah! I was trying to come up with a name for a landlord earlier and I think I said Bob Clock? [Andrew chuckles]


SYLVIA: Sure! Why not.


ALI: Jack, can I ask an important question about this ball?


JACK: Yeah, totally!


ALI: Which fountain is it closest to? [Sylvi giggles] 


JACK: Oh!


ANDREW: Good question.


JACK: So this is the thing. [Ali chuckles] So, in the Elliot district, there is a fountain that makes champagne?


ALI: Yeah.


JACK: But, that is considered ostentatiously tacky. So they have instead rewired the champagne fountain to just do like, high quality carbonated artisan water.


ALI: Sure.


JACK: Which they consider to be like an artistic, they’re like you know,


KEITH: Mmm.


JACK: There’s some real fucking Hitman level vibes here where they’re like, we are making a statement about how we’re not gonna drink champagne, we’re gonna drink-


KEITH: Seltzers from around the globe.


JACK: Seltzers from around the- that’s the theme of the party! The theme of the party is seltzers from around the globe. [Keith chuckles] And you know what?


ALI: Sounds like a great party.


JACK: Shit, I think Cecily was at the store because she was trying to buy a cup! Like she thought it would be really- like she thought it would be really good to show up and be like, whoo this is the last you know, last remnant of the Bloodthorn family or whatever. That clearly didn’t work out,


ANDREW: Mmm.


JACK: She’s gone to the party and she is definitely going to be able to whisper sweet words into the ear of Judge Rex, or into the ear of this constable somebody or another or something.


So! Good news is, we know where she is. Bad news is, it’s a lot worse than we thought it was going to be.


ANDREW: Very gauche showing up to a BYOG party without your own goblet.


ALI: Mhm.


JACK: Without the ‘G’, yeah.


ANDREW: Mhm.


JACK: Well we don’t know if it’s necessarily a BYOG party? Maybe she just wanted a good one.


ALI: That was just her plan, like accessory, and now she feels a little vulnerable. [chuckles]


JACK: Yeah. So yeah, I think I’m fine with that being my scene for the time being. Dre is next I think. Or are we going by the top, or are we going by our names at the bottom?


ANDREW: Oh I don’t know.


KEITH: I lined mine up with the name at the bottom, so.


ALI: [chuckles] Dre just did the duct tape though, so.


ANDREW: Yeah.


JACK: Oh yeah that’s true!


ALI: Also do we feel as if the duct tape was a clock tick, or?


SYLVIA: I don’t- I think-


JACK: Doesn’t really help us in the long term.


ALI: [laughing] Okay, sure! Thank you though, Khunk.


ANDREW: Yeah what is- what is the clock necessarily representing here. Is this us selling the goblet, is it us getting rid of the ghost?


KEITH: No the clock is an anti-ghost clock, I believe.


JACK [overlapping]: Permanently trapping the- yeah.


ANDREW: Oh, okay! Gotcha, right. Okay. That’s when the thing runs out, got it. I also feel like even if I hadn’t made that roll, you know, the bard getting us into the party is a pretty-


SYLVIA: Yeah.


ANDREW: Good thematic thing.


JACK: Oh, totally. Yeah, one hundred percent.


SYLVIA: Is there like a doorman or something? 


JACK: Yes, there is! There is. The doorman’s name is, uh- the doorman’s-


ANDREW: Jerry.


JACK: The doorman’s name is Jerry Pond. [Ali laughs]


SYLVIA: Okay!


ANDREW: Oh I love that game on the Sega Genesis.


JACK: Mm.


SYLVIA: Oh, fuck off Dre. [Dre laughs]


JACK: Jerry Pond is like a short guy. He’s wearing like a long coat with a collar that he’s turned right up around his neck. So you can see his- it’s kind of like Chine I suppose, you just see his nose peeking out from under the collar [Dre chuckles] and it’s like he’s clearly cold. He doesn’t really wanna be out here.


SYLVIA:
        (as Mimi): Hey man! We’re- obvi- you know, probably not the clientele you’re expecting.


And she looks over at like someone who’s like in a tuxedo who walks by.


(as Mimi): But, we have a meeting with a Ms. Cecily Blood- thor-.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): [whispering] Bloodstone.


SYLVIA:
        (as Mimi): Bloodstone?


JACK:
(as Kark): [whispers] Bloodthorn!


SYLVIA:
(as Mimi): Bloodthorn! Cecily Bloodthorn. And so we’re gonna need to get in, shouldn’t take too long, just you know, some clerical work- she’s expecting us, we got a little delivery, it’s, you know.


JACK: Just like face of absolute reasonable-ness on Jerry Pond. Just like absolute yup, mhm. 


(as Jerry): Yup, just uh, show me your ticket, and I’ll let you right in.


ANDREW: Ooh!


SYLVIA:
(as Mimi): Yeah gonna have to- see, we forgot to get that. We forget- Cecily, it’s- you know. These nobles, things just slip their minds, right? And she seems to have spaced on giving us the ticket thing? So either like you could fetch her, I’m sure that would go great. Or just let us in and we’ll talk to her, and it’ll be you know.


JACK: 
(as Jerry): Well I can’t fetch her because if I leave here you’ll just walk in.


KEITH (as Richard): No we won’t!

SYLVIA (as Mimi): I would never.


JACK (as Jerry): No, no, you’re lying to me. 


[Sylvi laughs]


JACK (as Jerry): If I leave here, I’ll go into the party and get Cecily for you, and then I’ll come out and I’ll look like a right chump because you’ll have just walked into the party. I know your game! What’s your name?


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I- I’m Mimi Marigold, you may have heard some of my songs around town. I play at a bar now.


JACK (as Jerry): Oh! The one-man-band?


SYLVIA:
(as Mimi): Yeah! 


Does a little-


JACK:
        (as Jerry): Oh that’s great!


SYLVIA: A little tune with her accordion.


JACK: Like Jerry bobbing his head.


SYLVIA:
(as Mimi): Yeah! So like, I mean, let us in, I can, you know, do an impromptu show for everyone and you’ll be like, everyone will be happy with you, who doesn’t love a one-man-band, right?


JACK (as Jerry): Wait, you’re saying, that if I let you into the party here-


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I’m trying- I’m not, I’m just trying to-


JACK (as Jerry): And then you’ll just do a little show for everybody, and then everyone will like me for letting somebody go to the party?


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I mean I don’t wanna-


KEITH (as Richard): Strong argument.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I don’t wanna put it like that, but.


JACK (as Jerry): I don’t think this plan is as good as the one where you just make me walk in there.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Well you didn’t seem to go for that, Jerry! So.


JACK (as Jerry): I don’t like any of this tone, I could just turn you away right now.


[Sylvi laughing]


JACK (as Jerry): Well I’ll tell you what. You make it worth my while, in you know, one way or another, and maybe I’ll see to letting you all in.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): You want like 20% off at our store?


JACK: I think his eyes narrow and he sees the goblet and he says.


(as Jerry): What’s that?


SYLVIA: 
(as Mimi): That is the thing we’re delivering.


JACK (as Jerry): Is it valuable?


SYLVIA (as Mimi):I mean it could be. What we got on you.


JACK (as Jerry): Hold on I think I can hear a ghost screaming.


SYLVIA: 
(as Mimi): Don’t worry about it. 


Adjusts my inner cymbals again.


ALI: Yeah.


JACK: I think you are going to need to offer, hm. Jerry does not want to be here. But he knows that if he leaves the buck will kind of stop with him in terms of letting weirdos into the party.


ANDREW: Mmm.


JACK: Are you going to be able to offer Jerry something that will give him an excuse to leave his post, or will give him an excuse to enter the party, basically give Jerry some plausible deniability here, and I think sweeten the pot for him.


SYLVIA: Okay. 


[01:30:00]


I’m trying to think of like some sort of thing we could fabricate happening like the fountain fucking up or something and he has to go deal with that?


ANDREW: You know, you could play a magic song to do all sorts of goofy stuff.


ALI: Ohh.


SYLVIA: This is true. The bard doesn’t specifically mention magic, but that is fantasy bard shit.


KEITH: I- do- is the rules of you roll on your own turn and no one else’s? Is that the rule?


SYLVIA: If you have an idea I’m all ears.


KEITH: I have arcane magic and could maybe make fake tickets. [Ali snorts]


SYLVIA: Why the fuck didn’t we start with this?


KEITH: Because it was your turn! [Dre chuckles]


SYLVIA: Yeah I know.


JACK: Jerry’s- Jerry’s little eyes are visible beneath his cap and his collar, like glancing between the crew.


KEITH: So can I make-?


SYLVIA: Go for it! 


KEITH: Okay.


SYLVIA: I’m fine with that, I can roll for something later.


KEITH: 
(as Richard): Oh! I think I have- I think I found the tickets, I just forgot that I had them!


And I rummage through my magic pocket and let’s see if I pull out anything good. No, I don’t.


SYLVIA: Oh my god. [Dre chuckles] 


JACK: Keith has rolled a one and a three? So two-


KEITH:
(as Richard): Here it is-


I don’t look. I don’t look at what I’ve done. Because I’m very confident. And I hand Jerry whatever it is that I have pulled out of my pocket.


ANDREW: Can I make a suggestion?


KEITH: Yeah, sure! 


ANDREW: You have pulled out the duct tape that I wrapped around the mug.


KEITH: Okay, yes! So here it is, duct tape. Loose- loose duct tape.


SYLVIA: The ghost just screaming now.


KEITH: Oh the duct tape- oh that duct tape! Not just a roll- [Jack laughs]


ANDREW: Yeah not the roll, but specifically the duct tape that was on-


KEITH:
        (as Ghost 2): Marginally increased freedom!


[Jack chuckles]


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Oh boy, oh boy.


JACK: Okay, right. How’s this fail- how are we going to fail forward here? 


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Okay, I’m just gonna punch this guy, hold on.


JACK: [Ali laughs] Oh! 


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): Jerry Pond, does my vengeance terrify you?


JACK: Jerry’s- Jerry now is just like,


(as Jerry): What’s up with the fucking stuff- I do not know what the fuck is going on-


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Hey, you said you wanted the cup, here’s the cup! Here it is!


SYLVIA: 
(as Mimi): We’re really just trying to deliver this to its rightful owner.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): We’re trying to get rid of it, it’s got a ghost in it! 


JACK: If you don’t- Jerry is gonna act if you don’t roll.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): There is nothing you can do to prevent the slaughter!


[Ali chuckles]


ANDREW: Okay, I’m just gonna punch this guy! Okay, a six. So partial success again. [Ali laughs]


JACK: Okay, oh I know what this is. Oh right. Jerry just goes down like a ton of bricks.


ANDREW: Oh god!


KEITH: Cause Jerry is just a normal guy.


JACK: Uh yeah. And there- I think that you know, Hitman-style, as you go to move his body into a- where are you hiding this? It’s somewhere outside the big gate, there’s sort of a gatehouse, there’s low bushes, there’s you know.


ANDREW: Um. I’ll- I go to lean him up against a nearby fountain which is, since it was in close proximity to the champagne fountain, it’s a hard cider fountain. 


JACK: Oh my-


ANDREW: And I just kind of prop him up against the fountain and make it look like he just had a little too much fountain fun, and is sleeping it off.


ALI: Mmm. [Keith laughs]


JACK: Yeah! And as you pass forward into the gates, you realise that the combination of the ghost screaming- what was it Keith? There is no end to the slaughter or something?


KEITH: Uhhh, something like that, yeah.


JACK: Yeah. It has attracted a crowd who has absolutely no interest in walking towards the violence. Or really, didn’t necessarily see you perform this. But what would’ve been a straight shot to the entrance of the party is now a small crowd of like, curious party-goers who heard a ruckus, you know? All sorts of- it’s like classic was that a rat or whatever?


KEITH: Was that a rat that maybe said that there will be no end to the slaughter?


JACK: [laughs] Just scream there will be no end to the slaughter? So you’re in, but you’re in in a sort of more heightened state. If we had a clock that was the party recognises you, that would have gone up, but we don’t. I don’t think we need one. Mm, actually-!


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): A scourge upon those who behold me!


JACK: No we can do, we can do more here actually. Which is that you know, as you approach, a very slim woman wearing like lots of bangles, loose bangles around her bracelets- her wrists, sipping a martini comes up and says,


(as woman): Hey, what was that? What wonderful costumes!


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): What it was was the eternal night that will befall you!


[Ali chuckles]


SYLVIA:
(as Mimi): Yeah- 


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): Going to the slaughter!


JACK: Can we-


SYLVIA: 
(as Mimi): -Cecily?


JACK: Hm?


SYLVIA: I’m asking the person if we can speak to Cecily, so if that’s.


JACK:
(as woman): Oh, the Bloodthorn girl! Yes, I am sure I saw her around-


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): Pretender, pretender! 


JACK (as woman): I’m sorry?

        SYLVIA (as Mimi): Don’t worry about it. Yeah, our friend here just has a bit of a cough.


ALI (as Granite): Yeah, it’s, couldn’t miss a party, but boy these seltzer allergies.


[Jack laughs]


ANDREW (as Khunk): [rough voice] Yes, they get me real bad. Huurgh. That’s me-


KEITH (as Ghost 2): Pretender!


ANDREW (as Khunk): The seltzer pretender, yeah, the seltzer pretender, that’s me!


[Keith laughs]


JACK: Just- she’s trying to look past you at the gate. Yeah I think she says,


(the woman): The pool, I think I saw her by the bathing pools.


And gestures completely broadly with her martini. You know, could be kind of fucking anywhere, you’re in the grounds of this beautiful estate. There’s topiary fountains, there’s actual fountains, there’s all kinds of arseholes mingling. 


SYLVIA: Can I- this is something I just thought of, mostly just because of what happened a second ago. Could I start playing music to help cover up the sound of the ghosts, right? Make that a little easier?


[Jack laughs]


ALI: Ohhh!


ANDREW: You’re starting a little four-piece metal-core band here with the ghosts as your overlay, I see. [Ali and Jack chuckle]


SYLVIA: Yeah, sure!


ALI: Yeah this seems deafening- yeah.


SYLVIA: Would that be a thing I could try though? Like-


ALI: Yeah!


KEITH: That sounds right. That sounds like that works.


ALI: Yeah.


SYLVIA: So it’d be 2D12.


ALI: That’s how sound works [laughs].


SYLVIA: Pretty clearly a music skill.


KEITH: And there’s no way that it could draw extra attention.


SYLVIA: No, definitely not! That’s why I got a 12.


ANDREW: Nope, yeah!


JACK: Holy shit!


KEITH: Oh wow. 


A: Zowie! 


[Sylvia laughs]


JACK: Oh my god! Sylvi!


ANDREW: What’s it like to be the only competent persona round? [Ali and Keith chuckle]


JACK: Yeah!


SYLVIA: This sounds great!


KEITH: You’re now a room full of extremely wealthy people’s new favourite music. [Ali laughs]


SYLVIA: I’ve invented Godspeed You! Black Emperor and the ghost is the vocalist-


JACK: Holy shit! [Andrew and Ali laugh] If a-! If a seltzer-going party-goer heard Godspeed You! Black Emperor, I think they would simply fall apart!


SYLVIA: Yeah no, it’d be great! There’s a dude in the corner just tapping an existential crisis, don’t worry about it.


JACK: It’s great! You’ve somehow you’ve got- there is a piece on your one-man-band that is weirdly like a Soviet number station? [Sylvi laughs] That’s playing really-


SYLVIA: It’s another ghost that I’ve got somewhere.


JACK: Holy shit. Okay,


ALI: This is a clock tick right? We’re in the party and we’ve successfully-


JACK: This is one hundred percent a clock tick! I think that-


KEITH: Is this anti-ghost, though? This is pro-party.


ALI: Absolutely! 


KEITH: Okay.


ALI: This is pro-party and it’s anti-ghost because we’ve covered this sound of the ghost so they cannot-


KEITH: But if the duct-tape was not anti-ghost.


SYLVIA: Well the duct-tape-


JACK [overlapping]: But this is a more active-


KEITH: Okay fair, yeah.


JACK: True, this is a spectacular success.


KEITH: Look I’m not saying I’m on- beacuse I’m playing the ghost I’m on the side of the ghost. [Sylvi and Ali laugh]


SYLVIA: Sure!


JACK: [chuckles] Alright. Who has a- let’s say that coming down the steps of the sort of the- the front of this mansion has those steps that go down two separate ways. You know at a ball and princesses come down each side of the steps and the prince goes down the other side. You know what I’m talking about, yeah yeah yeah! 


And coming down the stairs is- coming down one half of the stairs is a man you recognise as Judge Rex? And coming down the other half of the stairs, is Cecily Blackthorn. And I don’t know whether or not they’ve necessarily clocked that it’s us yet? But they are both- they’re vibing. They’re enraptured.


KEITH: Wow. Maybe we should just give her the goblet. [Ali laughs] I mean they have chemistry!


ANDREW: Mmmm. [Ali laughs] Oh those kind of vibes, okay.


JACK: We want to profit from here!


KEITH: Sure, true.


JACK: We- you know. This is a valuable goblet.


KEITH: I’ve got an angle.


ALI: Mm?


KEITH: If they’re vibing, maybe we could convince the judge to buy the goblet off of us as an impressive gift.


ANDREW: Oooh yup! Uh huh.


ALI: Oooh.


JACK: I meant that they were just vibing to the music, not necessarily that they were vibing with each other-


KEITH: Ohh! Okay, I misinterpreted.


JACK: I do understand because I described it as the prince going down one side and the princess going down the other side,


SYLVIA: Yeah.


JACK: That gave that impression. I was mostly just thinking of, I downloaded the video game Barbie Plays Rapunzel earlier today,


SYLVIA: Fuck yeah!


ANDREW: Uh huh, yeah.


JACK: And so I think that kind of visual was in my head.


KEITH: Okay.


JACK: I mean do we still want to pursue the bidding war between-


SYLVIA: The ghost and Cecily? Ohhh.


JACK: I think maybe we should introduce ourselves to Cecily, and let her know that we have you know, brought the object- we’re still not prepared to part with it, but the ghost will pay if she doesn’t-


KEITH: Yeah, she might not even want it when we tell her about the curse. Cause we didn’t know about the curse until she showed up, clearly-


ANDREW: Well sure, yeah. She showed up and that’s what awakened this curse. It definitely wasn’t us cursing ghosts into the goblet.


KEITH: Right.


JACK: Yeah we did, we super put those ghosts in the goblet.


ANDREW: Oh but she doesn’t need to know that.


JACK: Well!


KEITH: Well I feel like that’s a moot point, because whether the ghosts are in or out of the goblet, they’re after the goblet owner, which right now is us. So if we gave her the goblet, she might not want it, wherever the ghosts are. Because we certainly won’t banish the ghosts for her.


ANDREW: We can also claim that she showed up which manifested the ghost, and now she owes us damages. Because now this goblet isn’t worth anything because of the curse-


KEITH: Not only do I like that, I think that’s literally true. [laughs, Jack laughs]


JACK: I think people at the party are starting to- they’re enraptured by the music but they’re beginning to suspect that you’re not supposed to be here. You know, I think someone on the other side of the thing leans forward and you know, tips their martini glass, and an olive falls in one of the bathing pools, and they say,


(as random someone): I say, are those people those from the shop in the square?


KEITH:
(as rando 2): Oh, those people over there?


[Ali and Andrew laugh]


JACK: 
(as rando 1): Say, are those- are those people over there?


(as rando 3): Oh, no. surely not. All the people are around the pool. Those are simply shopkeepers.


[Sylvi laughs, Andrew chuckles]


Yeah, I think, yeah, let’s- let’s throw Cecily in here. I think Cecily comes up and she says,


(as Cecily): Well I didn’t expect to see you here. 


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Alright, look,


KEITH:
(as Richard): We did expect to see you here.


[Ali chuckles]


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Yeah that’s why we came here.


KEITH:
(as Richard): Yeah.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): We got a bone to pick with you. 


JACK: Just like looks at you over her, I think she’s wearing sunglasses. I think a lot of people are wearing sunglasses even though it’s night time here.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Look, look. We had this cup for a long time. And it was very beautiful, very nice to look at, and I can see why you’re attached to it. I understand that. I was even getting it out to start wrapping it up for you. And then-


K:
(as Richard): And then there’s another thing attached to the cup.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Yeah! Since you showed up, now there’s these fools inside of it!


And holds up the mug right into her face.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): Pretender, it’s the pretender!


(as Ghost 1): We will have our revenge on the false bloodline!


ANDREW (as Khunk): It’s a very unpleasant experience with this cup now.


JACK (as Cecily): Why are the ghosts of my revenant family trapped in the goblet that should be rightfully mine?


ANDREW (as Khunk): You tell us. You tell us!


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Yeah they seem to have sort of followed you.


ALI (as Granite): They say that you’re a pretender. 


JACK (as Cecily): Well of course I am, I killed my brother to take control over the Bloodthorn family, leaving me the last heir and the owner of the Bloodthorn treasure vault,


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oohhh-


JACK: I don’t dispute any of that.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oohhh that’s problematic.


KEITH (as Ghost 2): Rain of blood, a spectacular torrent! Entrails falling from the sky!


JACK (as Cecily): I assure you, it’s all being smoothed over. None of this is technically illegal under the fratricide clause of 1438 as it pertains to the Bloodthorn family. I can tell you exactly where the revenants came from and I suspect it’s because you broke the 14 seals in the basement where the goblet was stolen, once again from my own house. Does that ring any bells?


ANDREW (as Khunk): No.


[Keith laughs]


ALI (as Granite): The house was empty, and it was on fire. You’re lucky we even took this goblet out of there.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Also if we broke however many seals you say they are, how come they didn’t show up until you showed up?


[01:45:00]


ALI (as Granite): Uh huh. Maybe somebody broke the 14th seal and we’d only, you know, broken like 12 of them.


KEITH (as Richard): Mmm.


JACK: With the air of somebody trying to return a thing at a counter that they know they can’t return, [Ali snorts], Cecily just says,


(as Cecily): I’m not taking the goblet with the ghosts in it.


KEITH:
(as Richard): Well then you’re not taking the goblet, 


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Okay!


KEITH (as Richard): Because the ghosts are in it. So,


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I guess the ghosts won!


KEITH (as Richard): Yeah, the ghosts-


ALI (as Granite): I’ve got something to tell you, ma’am. Ghost removal services are two- hundred-


KEITH (as Richard): Thousand-


ALI (as Granite): And forty eight thousand gold.


[Sylvia and Keith laugh]


JACK (as Cecily): You can make that number up.


ALI (as Granite): No.


KEITH (as Richard): No.


ALI (as Granite): You can go back my store it’s on-


KEITH (as Richard): We have it written in chalk at the store.


ALI (as Granite): And these ghosts really want this goblet. Mimi, can you put it down a little bit?


SYLVIA: She lowers the volume, like she’s slightly, lighty-


KEITH: 
(as Ghost 2): [raises volume of screaming]


SYLVIA: You know, it’s hard to keep a bass drum on your back from beign too loud, but she does a good job.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): We will make sausage from her bones!


JACK: Wait no actually Keith, from whose bones? Cause- who is the ghost hunting right now? I think it’s hunting us, right?


KEITH: It also hates her, because she’s the pretender.


JACK: Because she’s the pretender.


KEITH: Right. 


ANDREW: Sure, yeah.


ALI: Yeah I think this is Cecily’s sausage bones.


KEITH: Right. It hated us and wanted to kill us because we have the goblet, but now is even more upset with Cecily.


ANDREW: Makes sense, makes sense.


JACK: So are we going to try- is our ultimatum to Cecily basically like, we’ll sell this to the ghosts, if? Have we proposed to the ghosts- basically I feel like we need to say, if you don’t pay, the other person will, right? Does- is the ghost prepared to pay?


ALI: I feel like the offer that we’ve made here now is, either you pay us to take the ghosts off and you have the goblet and you’re fine, or you take the goblet from us with no fee and then the ghosts kill you. [laughs]


ANDREW: I’m not a hundred percent-


KEITH: I would like to be paid for the goblet, ghosts or no.


JACK: So at this point we’re not trying to sell it to the ghosts at all. [Ali laughs]


ANDREW: No.


KEITH: No.


ALI: I, yeah-


KEITH: I don’t think the ghosts have the capacity to pay us.


SYLVIA: Yeah. This is their only thing.


JACK: Have ghosts invented mercantilism yet?


ALI: I, you know-


KEITH: No.


ALI: When we talked about it before-


ANDREW: Not these ghosts.


ALI: With them, they didn't-


KEITH: They have been killed out of mercantilism.


ANDREW: Mhm.


JACK: Oh my god. A situation devoutly to be wished. [Keith and Ali laugh] So the plan is, I’m trying to work out what Cecily’s- so the option is, pay us to remove the ghost-


KEITH: Or pay us for the goblet with the ghosts still attached.


JACK: Mmm.


KEITH: With a slight cursed discount. 10%.


JACK: 
(as Judge Rex): Now, look!


Says Judge Rex, coming down the stairs. Judge Rex just looks like Henry the 8th in my mind? [Sylvi chuckles] He’s wearing a ruff. He’s got lots of rings with gems on. He’s got like an incredible coat, there’s like a big fur collar around his neck, and he says.


(as Judge Rex): Now, look.


KEITH:
(as Richard): Ah Judge, it’s excellent to see you again!


JACK: 
(as Judge Rex): I do- ...Richard?


KEITH:
(as Richard): Yes, it’s Richard!


JACK: 
(as Judge Rex): From the- 


And he puts his thumbs up.


KEITH:
(as Richard): From the- I spoke at your wedding!


JACK: 
(as Judge Rex): Oh!


He has no idea who you are, but he feels that there is some sort of-


KEITH: He said Richard!


JACK: Yeah he did say-! I mean, you are wearing a shop badge that says Richard- [Andrew wheezes]


KEITH: Well it looks good anyway. [laughs] [Sylvi laughs]


JACK: Sure, it does look good anyway. I think he’s a,


(as Judge Rex): Ms Blackthorn will not be paying for curse removal, and the thought of one of my dearest, oldest friends getting torn apart by ghosts, that’s not something that we can do. And obviously I’m not gonna pay, but I’ll tell you what. There is a de-cursing platform in the fourth basement of my house.


And he gestures behind him to his house, and he says,


(as Judge Rex): You would be more than- I’ve heard there are plenty of good adventurers around here, you’ll be more than welcome to descend into the basement of my manse, and remove the curse for free! You’re more than welcome to take any treasure that you find down there, anything below the third basement I’ve forgot about since the fire. And you’re going to remove the curse, Cecily doesn’t get torn apart by ghosts, I feel like everybody wins!


KEITH: 
(as Richard): Judge, I, you know one thing I’ve always admired about your tenure, is your extreme reasonability. 


JACK (as Judge Rex): Well that’s what they say about me in the courtroom and at the gallows.


KEITH (as Richard): I beg you to see that this is not a win for us. We would be doing all the work of descending into the basement, all the work of removing the curse, and we’d be losing our goblet, our goblet, for nothing in return! 


JACK (as Judge Rex): Bah, the treasure below the third floor basement.


KEITH (as Richard): Oh, the treasure?


JACK (as Judge Rex): You’re more than welcome to take anything you find after the fire, I forgot about that area.


KEITH (as Richard): Okay. What do you guys think about treasure?


ANDREW (as Khunk): Sounds a little bit like you know, hustling backwards.


KEITH (as Richard): Like hustling backwards.


ALI (as Granite): We’re retired!


KEITH (as Richard): Judge, it sounds a little bit like hustling backwards!


[Ali and Sylvi laugh]


JACK: 
(as Judge Rex): Nonsense, it’s hustling forwards through the two double doors, through the door to your left, down through the secret passage, through the secret second passage, swim into the bottom of the flooded basement, and then entering the third sub-basement through the small grate at the bottom. You’re hustling precisely forward, and besides, the scroll- or, what’s your name? You, you look like you’ve been carved out of some sort of metal.


He’s- he’s pointing at Khunk.


ANDREW: Oh.


(as Khunk): It’s Khunk the Fourth, your Honor Majesty.


JACK: 
(as Judge Rex): Well you look like you could knock some heads together, I’m sure it would be no problem, I’m sure there’s some sort of big, nice—what is it you adventurers like?—a mace, maybe a big—what is it you adventurers like?—a carpet?


KEITH: 
(as Richard): Who’s- could I ask who’s heads there are to smash in your basement?


ANDREW (as Khunk): Good question. Good question Richard.


JACK (as Judge Rex): After the fire, I do not concern myself with that kind of stuff.


KEITH (as Richard): So you’re living in a mostly burned home?


JACK (as Judge Rex): No, everything below the third basement is burned.


ANDREW (as Khunk): So you got a bunch of pyromaniacs down there in the basement.


JACK (as Judge Rex): Pyromaniacs, fire-spirits, it’s hard for me to say, and I don’t care too much about it. Again, I feel like I’m making you a very clear offer that tidies everything up for everyone. Descend into the basement-


KEITH (as Richard): I would- I do mostly likely this but I feel like we would be doing you the great service of clearing out your lower basement, which itself deserves some sort of reward, no?


ANDREW (as Khunk): Yep. Yep. I’m agreeable with Richard here.


JACK:
(as Judge Rex): Very well.


He looks down at his hand. 


(as Judge Rex): I will throw in one ring for each of you.


KEITH: 
(as Richard): Hm. Are they nice rings?


JACK (as Judge Rex): Only the best.


KEITH (as Richard): Okay.


JACK (as Judge Rex) [overlapping]: On success or completion of the job.


KEITH (as Richard) [overlapping]: I can’t speak for my group here but I do like the sound of the deal.


ANDREW (as Khunk): [sighs] I don’t know Richard, we retired. We said we were leaving behind this life.


KEITH (as Richard): Oh, just one last job! Don’t you wanna- just one last- one final push!


ANDREW (as Khunk): No, we did that. And that’s how we got the money to pay the rent on the stand.


KEITH (as Richard): The sweet, final, final last one! The last- one last one!


ANDREW (as Khunk): [sighs] I don’t know- Granite, what do you think?


ALI (as Granite): [sighs] Only one more.


KEITH (as Richard): See, not even a full one, it’s half of a one!


ALI (as Granite): This is a whole-! This- we’ve been dealing with ghosts all day, this is a whole one.


KEITH (as Richard): We didn't even have to find the basement. He just told us about the basement.


ALI (as Granite): We came here for a paycheck and not a whole night of things to do.


KEITH (as Richard): We already got five rings out of it!


ANDREW (as Khunk): No we, we could get five rings out of it-


KEITH (as Richard): We’ve already got- we’ve already could have them. We already could have those five rings! Plus the treasure, the rest of the treasure-


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I also got tips from the partygoers, so.


JACK: Mmm.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): That, you know. That got at least, sort of twenty bucks in here?


KEITH (as Richard): Hm.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Wow! You’d think rich people would have a bit more, huh.


KEITH (as Richard): Yeah, you would think that.


ALI (as Granite): That’s how you-


ANDREW (as Khunk): How did you think- how do you think they got rich? Yup, there you go.


KEITH (as Richard): Yep. It’s by not tipping musicians.


ANDREW (as Khunk): [sighs] Okay, well if I’m the only one, if I’m outnumbered on the vote, I guess I’m in.


JACK: I think that Kark, who is you know, just I think just been sitting in a bush nearby, says,


(as Kark): I’m gonna kill some fucking fire sprites in the basement of a rich man’s house.


And just gets up and starts walking towards the house.


KEITH: 
(as Richard): That’s the right attitude, Kark!


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Eh, never worry about Kark.


[Ali and Sylvi laugh]


ANDREW (as Khunk): Kinda more worried about myself around Kark than I am about Kark directly, but you know. 


KEITH (as Richard): Kark is harmless to us.


JACK: Okay! Montage. [Ali chuckles]


In through the basement, out through the double doors, the secret passage, we’re all like, what are some montage steps here? My addition to the montage is we are all standing on one side of a fireplace that’s out, and someone pulls a lever and the fireplace spins around, and now we’re on the other side descending further in.


ALI: Oooh! Maybe we’re just sending someone down some stairs into a dark corridor, and I use my divine staff as a [wheezing] flashlight. [Andrew and Jack laugh]


JACK: The whole thing out in front of you.


KEITH: I would like a separate set of stairs that we trigger some sort of trap, and it turns into a slide? And we slide down-


ALI: Oooooh.


ANDREW: Ooh nice! 


ALI: Now that’s adventuring.


KEITH: Yup.


SYLVIA: Going through the hallway with a lot of doors, and we go in one door, and then we come out in the other- further down in the hallway, and then we go through, and then like maybe the ghosts are chasing us through it.


K: Oops, this is becoming more Scooby-Doo.


SYLVIA: Yeah! [Ali laughs, Dre chuckles] I did just turn it into-


KEITH: No no, mine was also 50% Scooby-Doo.


SYLVIA: Yeah!


JACK: At one point, we realise that we’ve like, dropped the ghost goblet at some point, and have to go back for five minutes to find the ghost goblet that’s screaming at us to pick it up and carry on going.


ALI: How are the ghosts liking the trip?


KEITH:
        (as Ghost 2): Unhand me!


[Ali and Sylvi laugh]


JACK: Fuckin’-


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): My escape would be your doom!


ALI: Mhm.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): I’ll miss you guys when this is all over.


[Friends chuckles]


SYLVIA: Many kinds of people.


ANDREW: I think Khunk like bends open some barred doors or whatever.


ALI: Hell yeah.


JACK: Before too long, we approach the de-cursing slate. What is a de-cursing slate? I don’t know.


KEITH: It is a- it’s a wheel, a hand-cranked wheel that uses centrifugal force to separate a curse from an object.


JACK: Oh wow. Holy shit. But it has to be built in like this kind of magical place, it’s like in a room, a flooded and burned room where like the light is streaming through from the ceiling like in fucking Skyrim, you know, where there’s like-


KEITH: Right, right. There's some sort of-


ALI: Right.


KEITH: There’s some sort of magical thing that allows the curse to be made partially physical and able to be separated through centrifugal force.


ALI: Yeah. And the light that shines in shines right onto the wheel, specifically.


[Sylvi chuckles]


JACK: Indiana Jones style.


ALI: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.


JACK: Mmkay.


ALI: Do we feel as if getting down here is a clock tick?


JACK: Oh shit.


KEITH: It’s gotta be, right? I mean. 


JACK: It’s got to be, right? Plus like taking the deal from Rex.


KEITH: Yeah, yeah. I mean we’re at the de-cursing platform, so it has to be anti-ghost.


ALI: Yeah, this is progress.


KEITH: I guess- does there- should there be a roll to add to the anti-ghost clock, and does that mean that this montage needs a roll before we get to this last room?


ANDREW: Can the roll be that we are trying to negotiate with the ghost one more time? Like alright, 


(as Khunk): Ey, listen. Listen. My lil’ cup friends. You’re about to get un-ghosted permanently. So uh,


KEITH: 
(as Ghost 1): Every drop of blood removed from you will be a sweetness.


ANDREW (as Khunk): So uh, if you’ve got a better deal to offer us besides the night of eternal stabby things or whatever. I’m all ears!


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Flay, flay the flesh from your skin! From- from your bones!


JACK: Yeah.


SYLVIA: 
(as Mimi): They’ve kinda only got one thing huh.


ALI (as Granite) [overlapping]: They’re not dealmakers-


JACK (as Kark): They’re not dealmakers Khunk, you can’t negotiate with ghosts.


ANDREW (as Khunk): [sighs]


JACK (as Kark): Or not these ghosts.


ANDREW (as Khunk): You know I just-


KEITH (as Ghost 1): I will negotiate the bones from your- limbs!


ANDREW (as Khunk): Okay that’s one pretty good though, come on.


[Ali and Keith chuckle]


ALI (as Granite): Write it down and let’s hurry up.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Alright. I just-


JACK: We are-!


ANDREW: 
(as Khunk): They are still more pleasant than the lady, you know? 


[Ali chuckes]


ANDREW: 
(as Khunk): So you know, if we could still help ‘em out in the end it would’ve been great, but.


KEITH: Dre, if you wanted to do the roll, this might be, cause we didn’t- the judge did not what would be down here, if you wanted to do hitting things for real, cause you didn’t get to do hitting things- oh no you did! You did it with Pond.


ANDREW: Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah.


KEITH: Okay.


JACK: Just punched that poor guy.


KEITH: Yeah.


ANDREW: Well, you know.


KEITH: The nicest person in the whole thing.


SYLVIA: You know, I’m sure he’s fine now. His jaw might hurt.


[02:00:00]


ANDREW: I thought Richard Fantastic was the nicest person [Ali chuckles], but.


KEITH: Aw thank you.


JACK: Yeah yeah.


KEITH: I appreciate that.


ALI: Moving the clock thing back.


JACK: Oh! [chuckles] Thank you for this clock editing, Ali.


ALI: Oh thank you!


KEITH: I like that it’s like the nuclear thing, [Ali laughs] it’s got alternating-


ALI: You know, I just wanted there to be some variation.


KEITH: Yeah a lil’ clock pizzazz.


JACK: So is Dre rolling to-?


ANDREW: I would like to roll to negotiate one more time with the ghost.


JACK: Yeah, okay. I think Kark says like,


(as Kark): Ghost, let me make this really clear. You know, if you don’t take some sort of deal that my friend Khunk is gonna offer you, that wheel over there’s gonna fuckin’ obliterate you. That will be the end.


ANDREW: Yeah, place the cup on the whatever wheel thing. Is like,


(as Khunk): Alright. Last, last chance fellas!


JACK:
(as Granite): You know,


ALI (as Granite): It’s a ghost destroyer.


JACK (as Kark): That’s a ghost- as far as we know.


ANDREW: Oooh, that’s not good.


ALI: Huh? Oh-


ANDREW: I rolled a two!


[Ali laughs]


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): The depths of my power have only begun to reveal themselves!


[Sylvi laughs]


JACK:
(as Kark): Alright, fair enough, fuck em up.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): An embarrassing failure again!


(as Ghost 2): No wonder the adventurers are now clerks of a store! Embarrassing! Embarrassing!


[Friends laugh]


ALI (as Granite): Oh hey, you’re just yelling at people all day, you don’t have a store.


JACK (as Kark): You’re yelling at people from a cup.


KEITH (as Ghost 1): I need nothing but the cup, the cup is everything!


ALI (as Granite): But you’re on the freakin’ cup, what’s the problem buddy?


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Outside the cup, looking in! Not inside the cup, looking out!


[Ali and Jack laugh]


ANDREW (as Khunk): What if- what if they’re right though? You know, what if the store isn’t really that nice- I’m feeling very vulnerable right now,


SYLVIA (as Mimi): The store is lovely-


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Vulnerable to words and vulnerable to lashings from my claws!


JACK (as Kark): No, it’s a great store, don’t-


SYLVIA (as Mimi): I’m about to beat the shit out of this cup.


[Ali chuckles]


JACK (as Kark): Yeah, don’t let ‘im into your soul.


SYLVIA: Starting to take off the musical equipment.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Yeah I’m gonna- I’m gonna go sit down by the door. It’s just- you know, do the thing, I’m just gonna go think about things over here. 


ALI: 
(as Granite): See now look what you did, ghost!


SYLVIA: 
(as Mimi): You gave Khunk depression!


[Keith and Ali laugh]


KEITH:
(Ghost 1): One by one they fall!


[Sylvi and Ali laugh] 


JACK: [laughing] Okay, great! Real talk. Do we wanna kill this guy?


[All friends laughing]


ALI: Okay.


JACK: I mean, we- yeah, Ali do you have a-?


ALI: It’s, you know, it might be time to hit that hand wheel. Is this the third? I guess if Dre failed that-


KEITH: Dre failed that roll, that was not-


ANDREW: Yeah.


ALI: Okay, well, then sure. We’re- yeah. Score 1 ghosts [laughs]


KEITH: Where’s my ghosts get the goblet clock? [Ali and Jack laugh]


ALI: Okay, yeah-


JACK: That’s a three-step clock I think, the ghosts have just filled one of it.


ALI: Sure, yeah yeah yeah. Give me one second. Oh, no, that’s not it. But yeah while I’m making this clock, I think that also might be, it might be time to start spinning this wheel!


JACK: Shit. Okay, what happens when you start spinning- who is spinning and what happens when you start spi- are you spinning, Ali?


ALI: Um, sure! Yeah, I bet I have experience with this sort of, these sort of tasks. Sorry I’m filling in this clock, so I’m a little distracted [laughs]


JACK: That’s a peace symbol, because peace can only be gained when the ghost gains control of the goblet and rends us from our organs. [Ali makes sounds of agreement]


KEITH: 
(as Ghost 1): Piece by piece!


[Ali and Jack chuckle]


ALI: Yeah, maybe there’s some sort of like, chant or like, some sort of spell that needs to be said as we, as we spin the wheel, and I’m calling it upon the spirits of the nature of the lands [laughs], to-


KEITH: This is your divine magic?


ALI: Uh huh. To help us in, against the strife of the Bloodthorn ghosts? 


(as Granite): Dear nature spirits, protect us against the scorn of the Bloodthorn ghosts, and-


JACK: Wheel turning round, [makes wheel turning sounds].


ALI: [chuckles]


(as Granite): Please deliver us like a little bit of wealth, somehow, tonight, please!


[Sylvi and Jack chuckle]


(as Granite): Divine spirits, 


Chug chug chug chug chug. Oh I guess I’m just rollin’.


JACK: Yeah.


ALI: 2D- 2D12. [rolling sound] That’s as 12, babey!


KEITH: Nice.


[someone whistles]


JACK: Oh my god! That’s a perfect 12!


ALI: The spirits had time tonight!


[Andrew and Keith laugh]


JACK: What happens when  you get a 12? How do the spirits respond here?


ALI: I think that we’re seeing them slowly separate off of the goblet, and the goblet’s spinning around under the strange moonlight of the basement curse-slate.


KEITH: 
(as Ghost 1): What is this magic?


ALI: [chuckles] It’s like big time, it’s like you know in The Little Mermaid when Ursula is taking out Ariel’s voice?


ANDREW: Mmm.


ALI: And there’s like the like-


JACK: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.


ALI: Torch in the air.


JACK: Like drawn out, right.


ALI: But instead it’s being like, pulled off of this goblet as the ghosts once again are- I think like, you know, I get 12 here, but the clock isn’t full, so maybe it’s a situation where like, we have to- we’ve separated them from the clock, but now we need another spell to do the deed and get them out of here.


JACK: Yes, I think also-


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): What is this? What is this sensation? 


JACK: I think also because you hit a 12 and asked for wealth? [Ali and Keith laugh] I think that like money briefly just rains in the basement. [Ali snorts] Like it’s not a lot of money, but it’s just like, gold just like, out of the air, for like four seconds, and then just stops. Everybody kinda goes “ow!” and like looks up as gold coins fall on them? It’s like not a massive amount of money, but it’s money, you know?


It’s so rough, right? Cause I don’t wanna kill this ghost, as me.


ALI: Why not?


JACK: I mean Kark- cause he fuckin’ rules! He’s really funny. [Keith and Sylvi laugh]


ALI: I’d rather not- trying to make sausage out of bones, and you know, threatening people? And they made-


ANDREW: Made me very sad.


ALI: Yeah, they made Khunk depressed.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): The cup is my vengeance! My kin slain by the pretender!


JACK: Mm. Mm. Mhm. Mhm. Yeah. Fair enough. Okay, let’s kill it. What is this last step? What is this last-?


ALI: Maybe this is like a team-up between Kark and Richard, where it’s like a spell arrow situation? [laughs]


SYLVIA: Ooh!


ALI: Like a, I don’t know, what’s your gear, Kark?


JACK: I’m a tree that kills people. It’s- what do I have here? It’s-


KEITH: Aren’t you the bark of the tree that kills people? 


JACK: Yeah, I’m not even really the tree I suppose. [Ali laughs]


KEITH: Is that an insecurity for you?


JACK: No. No, no. I- 


(as Kark): Little makes me feel insecure and when it does I put an end to it.


ALI: Mm.


JACK: I think that Kark, Kark has a grudging respect for this ghost’s uhhh methodology. But I am going to try and perform the next part of the spell, which is to bind the- the center of the curse plate is a like a, what’s a nice fragile thing? It’s like a, piece of chalk or something?


KEITH [overlapping]: Eggshell?


JACK: Yeah! It’s an egg that has been emptied or whatever. And you know the final step is that you bind the ghost to the egg, and then you break the egg and that’s the end of the curse.


KEITH: Is it like a quail’s egg, or like a normal-sized egg, or like an ostrich egg?


JACK: Mm. I think it depends? In this case it’s a normal-sized egg and that’s sufficient? I think it’s mostly personal taste from the necromancers or whatever? I assume necromancers invented this, it’s-


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): A normal-sized egg could not contain me!


JACK: 
(as Kark): Nope. It will, it will. Give me a second. Give me a second.


And yeah, like Kark you know, approaches the thing and begins to make the spell.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): Hubri-!


JACK: This is not tracking. Sorry, ghost?


KEITH: 
(as Ghost 2): Hubris! It will be your downfall!


JACK: Kay, I’m gonna roll 1D12 here. Okay! Yeah, that’s a partial success-


KEITH:
(as Ghost 2): Your partial downfall!


JACK: I get two of the ghosts in the egg. Two of the ghosts are in the egg. Ali, as the keeper of the clock, does that, does that tick the clock? I don’t know that it ticks the clock.


ALI: Um, I mean the ghosts are in an egg now?


JACK: Two of the three ghosts are in the egg, it was a partial success.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): Brothers! 


[Jack chuckles]


ALI: Oooh, yeah.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): Slain in life, and now in death! 


[Friends chuckle]


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): The wheel pushed downhill by the pretender reaches its, uh, 


[Jack chuckles]


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): The space of the- what is the opposite of apex? 


[Andrew laughs]


JACK: [chuckles] Nadir.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): The nadir. The wheel of life and the wheel of death.


ALI: Yeah, I don’t know that- I don’t know that containing 2 ghosts-


JACK [overlapping]: I don’t think in good conscience we can-


ALI: Is a grand finale here. Though technically we’ve been paid for this goblet, so the game can be over. [Friends chuckle] I just, I know that we feel the satisfaction of a full clock.


JACK: We haven’t been paid for the goblet by Cecily, though I suppose.


ALI: I’ve-


KEITH: You mean the rained wealth down that you?


ALI: Yeah.


JACK: I suppose we’ve got money, yeah. 


KEITH: And we are still owed the rings? That’s sort of the payment I think in lieu of the-


SYLVIA: Yeah.


ALI: True.


JACK: Yeah yeah yeah true. 


KEITH: It’s sort of a, we give the cup to Cecily and then the judge gives us the five rings, in addition to what we have found down here?


ALI: But yeah, if we want to take care of this last ghost.


JACK: Oh shit, I’ve got a good idea. What if we try to bind it into the cup and tell it that if it’s quiet and secretive it can fucking get Cecily?


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): What if you set me free and allow vengeance on the pretender?


JACK: No, it will kill us though at that point. I don’t know. I don’t know! Or we just fuckin’ get it. We perform the end of the spell and.


SYLVIA: Yeah.


ALI: I- you know the- mm.


SYLVIA: I kind of like the “let’s leave this ghost in there as a trap” idea?


ANDREW: Mhm. I do.


ALI: Yeah.


JACK: Three ghosts will scream all day, they love to do that and they’d be found out instantly. But maybe one increasingly angry ghost-


ANDREW: Yeah, you didn’t trap the most reasonable of the three ghosts- that one’s still out there.


JACK: Yeah, yeah.


ALI: Right.


ANDREW: The one ghost that was only yelling because like, the other two ghosts were yelling, and it felt a lot of peer pressure to kinda keep up appearances, but.


ALI: If this ghost is-


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): Do not prepare to know me, human! Bug- no, bug- bugbear! Do not deign to understand the motives!


ALI:
(as Granite): Are you willing to play ball or not? Do you wanna go into an egg, or back into the cup so you can make some sausage?


JACK (as Kark): We’ll put you in the egg.


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Rend.


JACK (as Kark): We’ll put you in the-


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Rend the flesh.


JACK (as Kark): Okay. Rend in the egg, or rend in the cup.


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Uhh, where is the cup going?


ANDREW (as Khunk): To the- it’s going to the deceiver lady.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): The pretender.


KEITH (as Ghost 1): Cup! Cup, in the cup!


[Jack chuckles]


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Okay.


ALI (as Granite): Told you he’d pick one.


JACK: Roll to trap the ghost in the cup- it feels like we ought to roll here, right?


ALI: Yeah.


JACK: And last time we didnt’t rap the ghost in the cup great.


ALI: Right, that was a partial success.


JACK: Fuck. So we want someone who can do really well.


ANDREW: I mean I think that might be Richard Fantastic. 


KEITH: I think none of us can do better than anyone.


[Ali chuckles]


ANDREW: Well, but Richard Fantastic can use arcane powers. 


KEITH: Sure, I mean in the plot I can, but we all are going to be rolling 2D12, I mean 2D6.


ALI: Right.


KEITH: Oh wait-


ANDREW: It’s D12.


KEITH: It’s 1D12.


ANDREW: Yeah.


KEITH: Okay.


ANDREW: Unless you’re using your class,


KEITH: Oh, when I got my failure earlier, 


SYLVIA: Oh my god!


KEITH: I rolled 2D6.


[Dre laughs, Ali snorts]


KEITH: Just cause I’m so used to it. It’s fine. 


[Friends lose it in laughter]


JACK: Oh, what did we fail with that? What was that?


SYLVIA: The ticket!


KEITH: That was the ticket.


JACK: Oh shit! It was making the ticket! [Friends still laughing] 


ALI: This is games, you know! 


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: You invite your friends over-


KEITH: Well cause I was like, twelve, right? Cause it’s like,


SYLVIA: Fuckin’ actual play.


KEITH: Twelve, that’s a spectacular success, so clearly you can’t be rolling 2D12.


ALI: Well.


JACK: Except!


KEITH: Except, you are.


SYLVIA: You are in fact.


KEITH: Cause it’s not adding them, it’s you have to get one.


ALI: Mhm.


ANDREW: Mhm.


KEITH: Right.


ALI: Yeah. 


KEITH: So. Oops! 


ALI: [laughs] Well now here’s your chance to roll 2D12 and-


KEITH: Okay.


ALI: Big finale.


ANDREW: Save the day.


[02:15:00]


ALI: Richard Fantastic.


ANDREW: Does Richard Fantastic have like a ghost potion or something?


KEITH: A ghost potion.


ANDREW: Mhm.


KEITH: Like a sort of brewed, like, this like a, ghost trapping concoction?


ANDREW: Yeah I don’t know, you’re the potions man.


KEITH: It’s more- well it’s more of a salve [Jack chuckles]. Potions are for strength. Curses, concoctions, those are for- those are for bad things. And then salves are for good things that don’t particularly make you stronger. So it’s a slave. So I’ll rub the egg with the slave.


ANDREW: Or wait, the cup.


JACK: The cup. The cup.


KEITH: The cup. Oh, are we not freeing the other two ghosts? 


SYLVIA: No! No nono.


ALI: No!


JACK: No no no no no!


KEITH: Sorry, I’ve misunderstood.


JACK: No, they’ll rend.


KEITH: They’ll rend, got it. So, yeah, so I’ll slather a little bit on the cup. And then inside the cup. 


ANDREW: Sure.


KEITH: And then we just have to wait till it absorbs, I guess.


ALI: Do you wanna roll to- [laughs]


KEITH: Oh yeah I’ll roll.


JACK: And it’s twelve.


KEITH: Twelve.


ANDREW: There it is.


ALI: There we go.


JACK: Oh! Oh! Perfect! What is this, Keith? What does this- what does imbuing the final ghost flawlessly in the cup look like?


KEITH: So I guess some- I was picturing the faces that were, that were doing, outside of the cup? There is that Pokemon that looks like a fortune, like a crystal ball?


JACK: Oh I’m gonna google, Crystal Ball Pokemon.


KEITH: I can't remember what it’s called off the top of my head.  It’s like, it’s got like, it’s like an orb, ghost orb. I wish I could remember what it’s called, maybe someone in the-


JACK [overlapping]: [chuckles] If you search for Pokemon Crystal ball, you just get Pokemon Crystal.


ALI: Is it not Gastly?


KEITH: No, no, it’s like a later gen thing. 


ANDREW: It’s not the balloon one is it?


KEITH: It’s like green and purple, someone’s gotta know this in the chat. There’s like a green and purple ghost- no not Gastly. [Ali chuckles] Green- god, maybe I shouldn’t waste time on this. It’s fine.


ANDREW: Oh I see it but I can’t, there’s not a name on it-


ALI: People are saying it’s Spiritomb?


KEITH: Spiritomb, yes! It’s called Spiritomb, yes. 


ALI: Ohhh, I see.


KEITH: So I’m picturing faces like a Spiritomb.


ANDREW: Oh yeah.


KEITH: And like, sort of orbiting around this cup? And I think it just sort of, it sort of like sinks in, like a hologram becoming a tattoo on the outside of the cup? But it does it like, over the scene of the unicorn fighting the thing- what was it fighting?


JACK: A dragon.​​


K: A dragon. And so, the face of the dragon becomes the sort of Spiritomb face.


JACK: Oh, that’s great!


KEITH: And that’s what it looks like. And it takes forty minutes to absorb.


JACK: [chuckles] We just wait down here in the dark?


KEITH: All I had was a salve, it worked, didn’t it?


JACK: Yeah, at some point- at some point Kark just like, just steps forward and cracks the egg with his foot? Is like, welp, waiting for the next- 


Hey, where did the ghost clock get filled in? Ali did you fill in-? 


ALI: Um, I mean I feel like this is a win for the ghost, if, the last remaining ghost is able to go into the cup and,


JACK: You’re right. I think it is, yes. [Ali laughs] Yes I think it is.


ANDREW: It’s kinda- it’s a win-win for both of us, you know?


ALI: Right, yeah yeah yeah.


JACK: What we’ve got here is a draw. [Ali chuckles]


KEITH: What is the- what is the motto again? It is-


JACK: We wrote it down, right? Ali wrote it down- wealth is never lost-


ALI: Wealth is never lost forever.


KEITH: Ok, so that’s- right as the tattoo like finishes setting into the cup, the ghost goes,


(as Ghost 1): Wealth is never lost forever.


JACK: Sick!


ALI: Well, I’m picking up these coins. 


KEITH: Oh, I’m picking up the coins. I lead them- [laughs, coughs]


JACK: Picking up the coins. Back up through the staircase, finding a lever that makes a slide a staircase again, going out in other doors. And yeah, you know, wants this presentation to, I think Cecily’s like,


(as Cecily): You’ve returned. Not much the worst for wear.


ALI: 
(as Granite): Yeah, where’s the rings?


JACK: 
(as Cecily): Judge Rex unfortunately had to go to business with a queen, but he left me this.


And she opens her hand, and inside are five, like extremely looking rings.


ALI: 
(as Granite): Thank you.


KEITH: Can we tell that- this is legit, we’re saying this is legit?


JACK: Yeah! I think so.


KEITH: Okay, okay.


JACK: Definitely. I mean, how much do we trust a man called Judge Rex who seems to be just like wheeling and dealing with the queen or whatever, but you know. They’re probably real rings.


KEITH: I trust him to have-


JACK: Right, yeah totally.


KEITH: Easier access to genuinely valuable rings than fake rings.


ALI: Mhm.


JACK: Yes. Yes.


[whistling sound]


KEITH: That’s the train, gotta go!


ALI: Yeah, we’ve done the damn thing.


ANDREW: Oh, sorry. 


KEITH: [chuckles] No, it’s fine. [Ali and Dre chuckle]


JACK: 
(as Cecily): The ghost moved? 

She says.


KEITH:
(as Richard): All- all of them.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): Yup. [groans] They’re real mean about it.


ALI: 
(as Granite): Mhm.


JACK: 
(as Kark): Mhm. Every ghost is gone. We’ve removed them all.


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): Is gone.


JACK: 
(as Cecily): What is that? 


She says.


ANDREW:
(as Khunk): [in his best ghost impression] Just said it was- just said that they were gone.


[Ali wheezing]


JACK: And she just holds her hand out for the goblet.


ALI: Here you go!


KEITH: Put it out, balancing it on-


ANDREW: Just toss it underhand at her. 


JACK: I think what happens is, I think she says, she gets the first syllable of ‘thank you’ out, and just like a hellmouth opens behind her? [Sylvi laughs] Just like, she is just bodily torn out of space and into what is presumably some sort of dimension of ghost nightmare. And the hellmouth closes as quickly as it- is the goblet left, Keith? Or does the goblet- have the ghosts just eaten the goblet at all?


KEITH: No. The ghosts haven’t eaten the goblet, because the ghosts want to keep the goblet as a sort of facsimile of their wealth of their living lives.


JACK: But they are quite happy to- they are happy to have acquired the pretender.


KEITH: Right, yes, extremely. 


JACK: Which I guess means that all the Bloodthorns are now dead.


KEITH: Right.


JACK: It’s the end of the Bloodthorn dynasty. 


KEITH: Unless you count the one sort of half-living ghost.


JACK: Yeah, is a revenant alive, is a ghost alive? I don’t- I don’t know.


KEITH: A ghost has sort of a life.


JACK: I suppose. I suppose a ghost does have sort of a life. [Ali chuckles] Yeah, Kark as we’re walking back from the party, like, Kark is holding like a shit- like a bottle of champagne or something and is saying like,


(as Kark): Yeah I suppose ghosts- I suppose you could say that a ghost does have a life.


KEITH:
(as Richard): Always fun to talk about ghosts with you, Kark.


JACK (as Kark): It’s always fun to talk about ghosts with you, Richard. I value it. This time we spend together, and we talk about ghosts.


KEITH (as Richard): It’s more valuable than a haunted chalice. 


ANDREW (as Khunk): Do you uh, you all really think the store’s nice?


KEITH (as Richard): I love the store.


JACK (as Kark): I think the store’s wonderful. The store’s so beautiful. 


SYLVIA (as Mimi): Yeah! We have a great store.


JACK (as Kark): We have a great store.


SYLVIA (as Mimi): You know what, any-


ANDREW (as Khunk) [overlapping]: You’re not just saying that because like-


KEITH (as Richard): Full- a store full of valuable items and valuable friendships.


ANDREW (as Khunk): When you put it like that, that means a lot. Thank you.


JACK (as Kark): Yeah, what you’ve done on the second floor with that display of the tilework, it’s really good you know. Sometimes when I’m coming out from the break room, I just look at the tilework, and I think about how my friend put it together. You know, if I saw it, I’d think that’s damn good tilework but I see it and I think, Khunk made it.


ANDREW (as Khunk): Oh, okay. [bashful] Okay! Yeah, you’re just making me into a big softie, you’re embarrassing me now.


KEITH (as Richard): I love the extremely strong bannisters so that you can do pull ups off them.


[Ali chuckles]


KEITH (as Richard): They were weak before.


ALI: I was gonna ask if we wanted to get some seltzer and go home.


JACK: [laughs] This gag of- it’s like the Ocean’s 11 ending, but at the seltzer fountain. [Friends laugh]


SYLVIA: Wait, did- sorry, did we decide if the goblet was there or not? Because if it was still there we should use that for the seltzer.


ALI: Yes.


JACK: Yeah we should take the goblet with us, right? How does the ghost feel, having rended? What’s the ghost’s current situation? My guess is that it probably does still want to rend, but I don’t know whether or not he wants to do it pressing-


KEITH: Well I think he wants to escape with the goblet. I think he wants to get out and take the goblet. I think it’s a good second place to have killed Cecily and be in the goblet?


ALI: Mm.


KEITH: They did say outside looking in, not inside looking out.


ALI: Sure, sure sure sure. 


JACK: Yeah. But it seems like a W for the ghost.


KEITH: Yeah.


ALI: Yeah.


KEITH: Yeah. Maybe a W with an asterisk, that’s good- that’s better than most ghosts get.


ALI: Wait let me-


ANDREW: A pyrrhic ghost victory.


ALI: A clock with an asterisk, just so we know. [chuckles]


KEITH:
(as Ghost 1): A victory with qualification.


JACK: [chuckles] It’s right there in the middle. 


Well I think that’s just about gonna do it! Unless there are any images of the store that folks have, or any last images of their characters that they want to see? I think that’s gonna do it for us.


SYLVIA: I can’t think of anything. 


ALI: Yeah I think I’m good, but do we just see how it’s us walking back to the store sipping seltzer out of our ghost goblet, and then like, the next morning like,


KEITH: Do we wanna go around the horn and say what seltzers we got? [Ali laughs]


JACK: Oh yeah! No, of course! Yeah, totally. Absolutely.


ALI: Wow.


KEITH: I had- I got- I had a black cherry and lemon.


ALI: Woow!


ANDREW: I got blood orange.


JACK: Kark can’t and doesn’t drink, but he did lie face down in an all fruits seltzer for five minutes and seemed to enjoy it.


[Friends laugh]


KEITH: Just like, leaves swollen with [laughing] water!


ALI: I’m gonna go for the old special occasion strawberry watermelon?


SYLVIA: Oh that sounds good!


JACK: Aww!


SYLVIA: I don’t know what’s good about seltzers is the thing, [Ali laughs] drink seltzer- I don’t know what seltzer flavours are, lemon lime?


KEITH [overlapping]: What about mint and blueberry?


ALI: Yeah. Lemon lime’s one, raspberry lime’s one. 


SYLVIA: I’ll take the lemon lime-


ANDREW: Mmm.


SYLVIA: Oh raspberry lime sounds good.


KEITH: Hey don’t- I’m telling everybody out there, don’t sleep on mint and blueberry.


ANDREW: Wait, is it mint and booooberry? [Ali chuckles]


KEITH: Yeah it’s ghost-themed,


SYLVIA: We need to end this.


KEITH: They only have it in October, [Ali laughs] and it is those classic, classic halloween flavours. Mint and booberry.


ALI: And that was an episode of Live at the Table! [laughs]


JACK: Yeah! Anybody wanna shout out anything out at the end? Or should we just, I don’t- say goodbye, or.


ALI: Yeah, I mean this was Hawkers, we had a great time playing it. You can find Hawkers over at itch.io, you can just search Hawkers, or you can go to harpypdora, at- happydora- harpydora.itch.io/hawkers, find it there, name your own price, have fun. [chuckles]


SYLVIA: Yeah.


JACK: Yeah! [Ali laughs] Absolutely!


SYLVIA: It’s a cool game.


JACK: And I agree, it’s a really cool game! Yeah.


KEITH: I had fun.


JACK: This was a lot of fun. So we will see you, uhh what do we say? We’ll see you around?


KEITH: We’ll see you around.


JACK: How do you end a episode of Friends at the Table?


KEITH: You say- you say, “that was Friends at the Table, we’ll see you around”.


[Ali giggles]


JACK: Alright. Well! Thank you all, this has been Friends at the Table, we’ll see youuu around.