Clapcast 05: Pistachio Armor
Transcriber: Kārlis (@townout)
Ali: Right. Did you see? Oh, my God, did you see that they made a plushie out of the Beargguy mech thing. And it’s part of like a whole line of plushies that are like that where the point is, is that you put them on your lap and then they have like a wrist thing that’s long. And then, as you’re typing, the thing that they’re typing on, the fake keyboard that the bear has, is your wrist thing. Let me try to find this. It’s a premium Bandai thing, which means I’m never going to be able to buy it, but let me try to find it.
Janine: The wrist brace is probably a good idea. Like I know Artists who sleep in those was basically, that’s how they use them. 
Ali: It’s a PC cushion. And then you sit with— 
Janine: That’s a thing that they invented just so they could make this. I’ve never done a PC cushion before. 
Ali: I… So I was like, “what’s a PC cushion?” And then I saw a bunch of other styles of it that aren’t like a robot… bear person. Hi!
Janine: Huh. That’s cute. But also, I bet, really awkward.
Austin: Yeah, I bet it’s awkward. I don’t have enough— Like, I have a belly, so I don’t have enough surface on my desk.
Janine: To be fair, this girl is pretty small also, I bet. 
Austin: Uhhh. Okay. Now I’m recording. Tell me more about this bear keyboard.
(Ali and Janine laugh)
Austin: So wait, what are we looking at? What is this?
Jack: Okay, so we’re looking at— Ali, you introduced it. 
Ali: OK. So I have been—
Austin: Welcome to Show and Tell, everybody.
(Ali laughs)
Janine: I was gonna say, this immediately sounds very fake and staged.
Jack: We’ve all brought something. 
Austin: Have we?! Oh, shit.
Ali: I’ve been having some wrist pain, so I was talking to Janine and Austin, Jack just joined in, hello.
Austin: AKA Art, who is also not here. It is like a combination of me and Janine, I guess. 
Ali: Wait, did I say…?
Austin: You stArted to say Art. That’s OK. Continue. 
Ali: OK. About this Beargguy plush and it sits in your lap and he’s typing on a keyboard. And the keyboard is a pillow that you put your wrists on. So as you’re typing, you have the wrist thing.
Janine: You’ve both the emotional and physical support of the Beargguy. 
(Ali laughs)
Jack: I have some real questions.
Ali: There’s a Pikachu one, there’s an Eevee one.
Austin: Are you looking at the keyboard? Because there’s an image that’s just the keyboard.
Ali: Yeah. Are you seeing this?
Austin: Yeah, I’m seeing it and I… Jack, what are your questions? I bet we have similar questions.
(Ali laughs)
Ali: I’m here to answer. I bet I have all the answers.
Jack: Okay, Ali. So you say the keyboard is to support your wrists while your typing. Is that not incredibly inconvenient for the bear?
(Austin laughs)
Ali: The bear is there to help me. He does not mind.
Jack: Okay. So the bear’s keyboard is mostly there for show.
Ali: I mean, he might also have work to get done. The bear’s also a robot, so he doesn’t really have to type. He can just like fake and then have you know— so it’s more for show.
Austin: It’s skeuomorphism, it’s like when iPhones used to have the fake wood grain.
Jack: No, it’s simply skeuo-p-orphism.
(Ali laughs)
Austin: Oh, sorry. Right (chuckles). I have questions about the actual keyboard. 
Ali: Yes.
Austin: Do you have the keyboard open? Just the keyboard. There’s an image that’s just a keyboard. 
Ali: Yes. I’m looking at it now.
Austin: It’s beautiful, first of all.
Jack: It’s gorgeous.
Austin: And there are things I love about it. For instance, the Enter key is just a big picture of Beargguy, who is— for people who don’t know, Beargguy is a modification of a Gundam, to look like a little bear-person. It’s very good. 
Ali: It’s great.
Jack: That’s a twist I was not expecting.
Austin: Other things I like here, the arrow keys have been replaced with colored hexagons, blue, red, yellow, and then a white one that also has a bear face on it. Things I don’t quite understand. All of the other keys on this keyboard have iconography on them. Things like chocolate bars and hearts and musical notes. And I don’t understand why they are where they are. So V, for instance, has a pair of musical notes on it, but so does Semicolon. 
(Jack and Ali laugh)
Austin: And I (chuckles) either don’t understand grammar as much as I thought I did or I really don’t understand music as well as I thought I did. 
Ali: You know, sometimes when you have those keyboards and then there’s like an Fn key and then you click that and another thing and it changes your volume or whatever.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: So if you click the heart and the chocolate at the same time, you get delivered a chocolate bar. 
Austin: Ohhhhh. From inside the Beargguy, like the Beargguy opens up and it’s like (bwah) chocolate. 
Ali: (laughs) Maybe, maybe.
Austin: Just has some chocolate bars in there. So what’s the music note—
Janine: If he can do that, then why would he need the keyboard that he can type that into? He could just do that.
Ali: Janine, you type on his keyboard for the chocolate. We’ve been over this.
Janine: That just seems rude. That’s his keyboard, you have your own keyboard.
(Ali laughs)
Austin: Maybe he doesn’t speak English.
Janine: He brought that keyboard from home. That one’s for him to use.
Austin: This is like your— It’s like a love story where you’re like, ahh.
Ali: Maybe you say Beargguy would like some chocolate and he types it in?
Jack: (gasps) I’ve cracked it. Look, my right wrist goes on the Semicolon and my left wrist goes on the V and they make a pleasant chord! 
Austin: Can’t wait for the next season of Friends of the Table, all performed on this Beargguy keyboard. There are two different ice pops on this and one of them is, appropriately, on the I key. The other one seems to be on that little— What is this? The Function key? Either the Function key or the little icon that makes the right mouse button happen even if you don’t have a right mouse button. 
Janine: That’s an Otter Pop.
Austin: Oh, you’re right, that’s a big difference. Sorry. Apologies.
(Ali laughs) 
Jack: You could also say that this keyboard is extremely low res. So I imagine we’re all zoomed in on it right now.
Janine: It’s also a pillow, sooo.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah, true.
Austin: Lots of things are a pillow, though.
Ali: Yeah. Anything can be a pillow—
Janine: Name three.
Ali: Oh, the Eevee one is nice. 
Austin: I really love this image of the girl who’s just like, head down in her arms, probably sobbing while holding her Beargguy pillow close to her. Like, same! 
Ali: Oh, the one of her on the floor with like the pieces of the other Beagguy? The other one is a model kit, I just want everyone in the chat to understand what I’m looking at.
(Ali and Janine laugh)
Ali: It’s a model kit. It not just— (laughs)
Austin: I’m just saying…  But her head is just like, she’s not looking at those pieces. She’s just like, head on ground. Also, look at the first one. Look at her expression. You can’t see her eyes, but you can see her mouth. She is writing a very sad letter, probably to this dude in the second one, whose face you can’t see at all. 
Ali: “A very cuddly Beargguy that will surely make you comfortable while working. It comes with a soft armrests or relax your arms while working long hours at your keyboard.”
Jack: That’s his keyboard! Bullshit, a soft armrest.
(Ali and Jack laugh)
Jack: It’s making him miserable. 
Austin: We should clap. We should do a time.is. All right. Let’s clap at fifteen seconds?
Ali: Sure.
Janine: Okay. 
Austin: You got some time. You have five more seconds.
Janine: (laughs) That’s not that many seconds!
(all clap)
Austin: That felt good.
Ali: Yeah?
Austin: Yeah. I don’t know. It didn’t feel like perfect. But it felt good.
Ali: (laughs) Fair enough.
Austin: Okay.
Ali: Oh, I should open Roll20. I got to do all the setup.
Austin: Yeah, it’s important. It’s an important one to do.
Ali: Making this podcast…
Jack: Making this podcast.
Austin: Notes, here we go…
———
Jack: Ooooh, what is a quorum? (sighs)
(Ali laughs)
Austin: It’s four people.
Keith: We had a meeting about this.
Austin: We did also have a meeting about quorum.
Jack: Okay, that’s true, we did have a meeting about this. And, to my credit, I think I also asked what a quorum was then, too. 
(Keith laughs)
Austin: It’s how many people you need to say this is an official meeting where things can get done. 
Ali: Oh, right. Didn’t we decide— We don’t have to talk about this right now (laughs).
(Jack laughs)
Austin: Probably shouldn’t talk about it on… How we’re running our business.
Jack: I don’t think the fact that we’re a business is a secret. 
(Ali laughs)
Austin: Yes. It is (laughs).
Art: (laughing) Or that there might be rules involved.
Austin: There are. There are rules involved.
Art: The real thing is, I don’t remember what the quorum is. And I think that’s my job. 
(Art and Austin laugh)
Austin: It is your job.
Ali: I also forget.
Austin: That’s what the money is for!
Art: I have an idea of what I think it is. I’m going to write it down in our thing.
(Jack and Ali laugh)
Art: And you tell me if you think it’s right.
Jack: This is like everybody pick a red or a black cube.
Austin: Hey, spoilers. 
Ali: I think it was less than that.
Art: What? You thought it was— oh, you’re just going to say it out loud?
(Ali laughs)
Austin: No, no, no, it doesn’t have to do with that. It can’t be a number, right? I thought it was something else.
Art: What? No, it definitely has to be a number.
Austin I thought it was percentage based.
Ali: Oh, no (chuckles).
Art: No, what? There’s seven of us, doing that would be ridiculous.
Austin: No, not that percentage.
Art and Ali: Ohhhh.
Austin: I’m 90 percent sure it’s percentage based.
Art: I don’t know why we didn’t record that meeting. That was an important meeting.
Austin: Because I was in that Starbucks and Seal was playing. 
Jack: Oh, you were in the Starbucks and Seal was playing. 
Austin: (laughing) Which adds context to that bit from the most recent Bluff City, that…
Ali: That Kiss from a Rose thing?
Austin: The Kiss from a Rose thing was me calling back to our business meeting, during which time I kept unmuting myself at the Starbucks because I just loved the notion that I was making everyone listen to Kiss from a Rose by Seal. 
Ali: It’s a really good song. I appreciate it.
Austin: It’s a reallly good song.
Art: I’m so mad to find out what that lyric really was.
(Ali laughs)
Austin: Which one? 
Art: The chorus? What do you think the first line of the chorus of Kiss from a Rose is? 
(typing)
Austin: Oh. Baby?
(Ali laughs)
Art: No. What? No.
Jack: Continue.
Art: I mean, that’s right, but it’s not— 
Austin: (singing) —“kiss from a rose”. Oh, oh. This is the one about gray vs. grave.
Art: Yeah, it’s gray and not grave. And I’m mad about it. That’s nuts.
Jack: What is… the gray?
Austin: Isn’t there a grave in the video? 
Ali: I think there is. 
Austin: “This line is referencing—” Thanks to Genius annotation here, I don’t know why there isn’t a person.
Jack: It’s two contributors! If you click, two contributors, you can see it.
Austin: Oh, can you, where do you see it?
Jack: Yeah, it’s RJ and PerfidiousSinn. 
Austin: Thank you. RJ, PerfidiousSinn. “Baby, I compare you to a kiss from a rose on the gray. This line is referencing to the opening imagery of a graying tower alone on the sea. He compares her to the ability of a single rose to grow on the gray tower surrounded only by the ocean. To him, she is a miracle. A splash of color in his otherwise dull life.”
Art: Yeah, I’ve read that. I still don’t buy it. 
Jack: I just checked the annotation for the first line and it’s great. It says, “Seal may be describing his own life as a lighthouse,” which I read—
(Ali, Art and Austin laugh)
Jack: That is not what I read that as. I read that as, “Seal is a lighthouse?”
(still laughing)
Austin: (laughing) My entire mouth was full of coffee. It was really hard! Not to spit take. It was very close. 
Jack: Oh, it’s really impressive songwriting, given…
Austin: Given that he is a lighthouse!
Keith: Given that he is a lighthouse given human form, who can only stay a person if he can make a number one R&B hit.
(all sigh)
Jack: Oh, well done, Seal. His name is Seal, so at least it’s kind of nautical!
Austin: Yeah!
Art: He used to be Seal Beach. Seal Beach Lighthouse.
Austin: God.
Keith: Gonna go look at a picture of SEAL.
Ali: Oh, he looks great, by the way.
Keith: Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Austin: Always! Right? Doesn’t he always just look great?
Ali: Yeah. 
Austin: I did a Google image search for Seal. I don’t know what I expected.
(Jack and Keith laugh)
Austin: It’s him first and then it’s like 30 different seals. Is he still performing?
Jack: Why is his name Seal?
Art: I’m sure.
Austin: Because it’s his name. Why is anyone’s name their name?
Jack: Why pick Seal?
Ali: I mean, why not? 
Art: Because he’s sealed with a song.
Austin: With a kiss from a rose.
Jack: Sealed with a kiss from a rose on the grave.
Art: Fuck!
———
Jack: Hey, I’m back.
Ali: Hey!
Austin: Welcome back!
Jack: We waiting on Art?
Austin and Ali: Uh huh.
Jack: I had a slice of bread and peanut butter.
Ali: That’s always the best, it’s like a quick snack, you just eat the one slice.
Austin: Love it. Yeah. So good. 
Ali: So good.
Jack: Yeah. It’s just like a classic podcast snack. 
Ali: (laughs) Yeah, it’s soft and quiet and you just eat it. 
(Jack chuckles)
Austin: Toast and peanut butter. You eat it.
(Ali laughs)
Jack: I’m trying to think about what— Austin had soup a few years ago as a podcast snack. And I’m trying to think about what is more. And I think that the conclusion I’ve come to is fondue.
(Austin laughs) 
Ali: Fondue?
Jack: Yeah. Just like having that during a podcast with the little fondue sticks. 
Ali: The absolute worst snack that you could have during a podcast, I think, would be pistachios. 
(Jack laughs)
Austin: Oh, yeah, true. Have I ever done that?
Ali: No.
Austin: Never?
Ali: No, no, you usually have like a cough thing you’re playing with.
Austin: That’s likely.
(Ali laughs)
Jack: Oh, my God. Pistachios are like... Pistachios are like—
Ali: First you gotta get them out of there.
Jack: —a three-pronged attack of podcast— 
(Ali and Jack laugh)
Ali: It’s a whole process.
Jack: Because then once you’ve—
Austin: I’m gonna bring us back so we can talk about pistachios to this audience.
Jack: Once you’ve got the pistachio out and you’ve got the pistachio armor in your hand, which is already in two pieces. Then what do you with it?
Ali: Pistachio armor (laughs).
Jack: Do you put it in a bowl?
Ali: I guess you put it in a bowl. So first, it’s the opening of the bag.
(Austin makes a crunching sound)
Ali: And then you crack open the pistachio. And then you have to eat the pistachio.
Austin: Then you got to eat the pistachio.
Ali: And then you have to put it in a bowl to—
Austin: Wait one second. You get to eat the pistachio.
(Ali laughs)
Jack: Yeah. You have been awarded. You’ve been awarded the pistachio.
Ali: (laughing) You’ve earned the pistachio. 
Jack: Yeah, exactly (laughs). You’ve got it out of its armor. What about a walnut? What about eating a walnut?
Austin: I don’t think I’ve ever eaten a walnut in front of a microphone.
Jack: No, I don’t think I— But I imagine it would be really bad. 
Ali: It would be pretty bad. It would be pretty bad. Because, then, you need a separate tool to open that. (crosstalking) It would be like eating lobster at a podcast.
Jack: (crosstalking) Yeah, you have the whole deal. (laughing) Oh my God. Well, I kind of feel that with the lobster at least, you know, with a lobster, generally the lobster is down on the plate. But with a walnut, you’re holding it—
Austin: Generally?
(Ali and Jack laugh)
Ali: You have to pick a lobster up to eat it.
Jack: You don’t have lobster fondue there, Austin? 
Austin: No, we don’t have that here in the States. You don’t lift up the… What are you dipping the lobster into, in your scenario?
Jack: Cheese, melted cheese. 
Austin: Melted cheese like regular old fondue? OK. No.
Ali: Seafood with cheese, you’re out of your mind.
Austin: True facts.
Jack: Would it be clam chowder, I guess, if you’re making lobster fondue?
Austin: No, it wouldn’t be clam chowder. What?
(Ali laughs)
Jack: I just went adjacent. Look, there are expectations of British people. I went adjacent. Alright, Austin, fine. What is the fondue from?
Austin: Would it be a hospital if you were building a school? No! (laughing) No, it wouldn’t. Those are two different types of buildings!
Jack: Okay, Austin, what’s the fondue for a lobster?
Austin: It’s butter. It’s butter.
Jack: That’s not a fondue!
Ali: Buut, that’s what you’re putting it in.
Jack: What’s the difference between a dip and a fondue?
Austin: No.
Ali: Okay, no, no no no. A dip and a fondue are the same thing. Butter isn’t a dip.
Austin: Butter isn’t a dip.
Ali: Well, I guess it is if you’re dipping. Now I’m confused.
Jack: We’re dipping the lobster in the butter.
Austin: Fondue…
Jack: I’m gonna Google “lobster fondue”.
Ali: I mean, lobster is one of those ones that shows up anywhere. You can do anything with lobster. 
Jack: Well, except, apparently, clam chowder.
Austin: You cannot do— mm. Art, are you back? Was that the sound of you being back? 
Art: Yeah. Sorry about that. Mabel really wanted to milk it.
Ali: (laughs) You were gone for like two seconds!
Austin: Yeah, you’re good.
Art: That was like four or five times what the “do you have to pee” walk is usually like.
Ali: Oh, well, ok. 
———
Austin: Okay, so we should time.is and clap. And record. 
Dre: Been recording this whole time.
Art: Sorry, Clapcasters, you won’t get our hot ape takes.
Dre: And we don’t get your whistling either.
Art: Should I get my audio to work? Sorry.
Keith: (laughing) Yeah. You started mumbling about audio problems and whistling to yourself.
(Dre laughs)
Art: I mean, I was whistling to myself the song that I was playing on YouTube to see if the audio was working. And it wasn’t, so I didn’t have the pitch to go off of in my ear. 
Keith: That’s fine. No, it sounded fine!
Dre: Oh, whoa, this is weird. I got a new mouse and it’s a Logitech mouse with a light on it. And it links to Discord and it changes color whenever one of you all talks. Do any of you want to guess what your color is when you talk?
Keith: Green.
Sylvia: I hope I’m blue.
Austin: Am I red? 
Dre: No. Sylvia[1], you’re close. 
Sylvia: Oooh. Purple?
Keith: What’s close to blue? 
Dre: Well, it’s like a different shade of blue, like a lighter shade of a blue.
Sylvia: OK, so like a cyan…
Keith: I would call that— yeah, I think they got that.
Dre: It’s like a teal. So you could argue whether teal is blue or not, but I’ll say it’s right. There is a. Okay, I’ll give you the rest of the colors. There’s a green, there’s a dark blue and there’s a yellow.
Art: There’s a teal and a dark blue?
Keith: Am I the green?
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: And there’s a lighter teal.
Keith: I think that that means that Logitech considers teal to be green.
Austin: But there’s also a green. Am I the green?
Keith: There’s also a green…
Dre: No.
Austin: Fuck.
Dre: None of you have guessed right.
Keith: Shit.
(Art laughs)
Keith: I’m yellow.
Art: I’m gonna guess that I’m the green, that’s a probability.
Dre: Art, you are correct.
Art: There you go.
Austin: Am I the yellow?
Dre: You are the yellow.
Austin: Fuck.
Keith: Oh, then I’m the red!
Dre: No, you’re the blue.
Austin: There’s no red.
Keith: WHAT? Where is the red?
Austin: I don’t know if there’s ever been a red.
Dre: We should get Ali in here, see if there’s a red (laughs).
Austin: How did you get a microphone that has a— what? Wh-what? 
Dre: It’s a mouse. It’s a Logitech mouse.
Sylvia: Wait, that makes it weirder!
Austin: That’s worse. 
Dre: Yeah. No, it is. Listen, it’s not a good thing that’s happening.
Austin: You said, “listen”, I thought you were going to hold the mouse up and it was gonna make some Discord noises. 
(laughter)
Dre: So when I installed it, it was like, “hey, we can sync with your Discord”. And I thought maybe it would mean like, “hey, if you get sent like a direct message, I’ll like ping a red” or something. But nope, all it does is just change colors when one of you all talks. I guess, when I’m hardcore gaming and I don’t know your voices yet, I could look at my mouse?
Austin: And you could just say it, it’s like code names. 
Keith: Yeah. Well, hold on. But we are looking at the screen. You’re looking at your monitor and covering the mouse with your hand.
Dre: Listen, there’s no good reason for this (laughs).
Keith: (sighs) This is like a washing machine that dings when it’s done and it’s like, yeah, washing machines are loud. I know when it’s done cause the noise stops.
Sylvia: My washing machine sings a song!
Austin: Ooh, which song?
Sylvia: (singing) Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo. 
Dre: That’s actually, yeah, that’s ours too.
Art: What brand washing machine do you have?
Sylvia: Yeah, apparently we have the same one. I don’t know.
Austin: You know that sound when you’re alone at night in your house. And then you hear your washing machine seem to you. Yeah. That’s Rigour. That’s actually Rigour. 
(all laugh)
Keith: I didn’t even have a load of laundry on!
Dre: I gotta learn how to like use Fruity Loops so I can remix the Rigour theme to have my laundry machine song in it (laughs).
Austin: Yeah, exactly. All right. Let’s time.is and clap. Let’s do, uh, 30 seconds?
Art: It’s Global Handwashing Day!
(all clap)
Austin: Every day should be Global Handwashing Day.
(laughter)
Keith: Do you wanna go around the horn and talk about how many times you’ve wash your hands today?
Austin: 5? 6?
Dre: Yeah, probably about that much.
Keith: Wow, that’s a lot. I’ve washed my hands twice, but I also took two showers.
Austin: Are you counting those as handwashings? 
Keith: Uhh, yes.
Sylvia: I would count that.
Dre: Your hands get washed in the shower.
Keith: I washed my body with soap and I use my hands for soap.
Austin: Yes, so that should be four hand washes. 
Keith: Well, that’s why I separated them. Two of them were showers, two of them were specific hand washes. 
Austin: If I had taken two showers, I wouldn’t have done two of these hand washings. All right. 
Sylvia: See, I still wash my hands before I get in the shower sometimes, I just do it.
Austin and Keith: What?
Sylvia: I don’t know, I just like—
Dre: Hey. Live your life.
Austin: Okay, that’s fair.
Keith: Yeah. First, I was upset, then I remembered that people can live their life. (laugh)
Austin: And that you couldn’t do anything to stop it! Exactly.
Keith: Yeah, I can’t do anything to stop that. 
———
Ali: I’m like—
Jack: Shit. Crap.
Ali: Oh?
Jack: Oh no, go on, sorry, I just need my Mac.
Ali: Okay. I hope that I don’t, but I think my cousin is stopping by to give my mom some Facebook candles. 
Austin: Excuse— okay.
Janine: What the fuck is a Facebook candle?
Austin: What does that mean…
Janine: Are those like Facebook leggings? Is that like one of those things where the ladies sell the candles? And leggings.
Austin: Wait, I have more questions about this. What’s a Facebook legging?
Janine: There’s like a whole brand of clothing you can only buy on Facebook.
Austin: Ohhh, right.
Janine: And it’s like, they distribute it to small groups of people and they do little special online sales of just like— 
Austin: You can do that with tarot readings now, too.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: These are like clothes that are all made out of the same five fabrics, but different clothes. It’s weird.
Austin: Someone bought a bunch of that fabric and was like, “I have Facebook. That means I have a business now”.
Ali: (laughs) I mean, yeah, Facebook Marketplace, you can just sell things. But have you heard of Scentsy candles?
Jack: No. 
Janine: I bet right now I can find an ASMR video about them.
Ali: Right, exactly. They feel like—
Austin: Oh, Scentsy. Like a scent and then S-Y.
Ali: They seem like the Avon of candles right now. That’s the vibe that I’ve been getting. 
Jack: What is Avon?—
Janine: Can you dig jewelry out of them?
Ali: Oh, Avon is like a brand of makeup and accessories, but they don’t have storefronts, you can like—
Janine: It’s the Tupperware of makeup. 
Ali: Traditionally women in their 30s and 40s buy into the company to be a salesperson and then sell the product to their friends.
Janine: It’s weird because I had only ever heard about Avon peripherally as like a cultural thing until university, when there was someone in our dorm who sold Avon stuff. And then I actually got my hands on an Avon catalog for the first time, realized like, “oh, all this shit is mad affordable”. Oh yeah. It’s like drugstore prices, but it’s like, you know, it has the the air of a premium brand. Plus, it’s not just makeup, they have a ton of shit. They have like clothing and jewelry and, you know, so I totally immediately was like, “oh, this is how this is such a thing. Okay”. 
Ali: It’s the thing of like needing to know a person. 
Janine: And also like, even when you want like “premium makeup”, it actually— well, it’s not as bad as it used to be because like Sephora and stuff. But in the 90s and earlier when you’re only route to that stuff was like a makeup counter with a judgy lady. I could totally see the appeal of like, “oh, my neighbor can sell me nice lipsticks”. 
Austin: Right, someone who I actually know, who will not judge me for asking questions. 
Janine: Yeah. Who doesn’t have like a perfectly smooth, high ponytail and eyes that can see through me. 
Jack: (chuckles) I just found out that the first Avon lady was born in 1836 and her name was Persis Foster Eames Albee, also known as P.F.E. Albee, an American businesswoman and entrepreneur. 
Janine: Persis is an amazing name.
Jack: Yeah, Persis Foster Eames.
Austin: Is that the next 14/15 name?
(Ali laughs)
Jack: Her husband was called Ellery Albee!
Austin: Good names, good names.
Janine: Good names.
Austin: Why is it called Avon?
Jack: Let’s see.
Janine: It’s a nice river people like. That could just be it. 
Jack: Oh, it was— (chuckles). It was originally called the California Perfume Company. And then they just changed their name to Avon, yeah. It’s not clear why. The reason for calling it the California Perfume Company is great, it just says, “his business partner was living in California at the time and suggested the name because of the abundance of flowers there”. 
Austin: (chuckles) Oh, yeah, sure. Why not? OK. Are we recording? Should we time.is?
Ali: Ohh, we do that too, yup.
Austin: Uh, let’s go at 30.
(off-sync claps)
Janine: I was early.
Austin: Okay. We can do one more. It sounded good but let’s do one more at 40.
(claps)
Austin: I definitely heard two distinct sets of clap.
(all laugh)
Janine: Was I late that time?
Austin: I’m sure we’re close. 
———
Keith: A lot of centipedes have a fake head to make you not know which way it can move. They’ll have a false head. 
Sylvia: It doesn’t matter because they’re smaller than my fucking foot and I’m going to crush them.
Austin: Hell yeah.
Keith: Not all of them, some of them are like a foot long!
Austin: Shut up, shut up, shut up, no. Bad. Not good.
Sylvia: (whispering) I got big feet.
Austin: Don’t. I can’t believe you whispered that.
Keith: Aah! Hoo! Ohh! I can’t believe you just said that into a microphone.
Sylvia: (whispering) I will kill them.
Austin: Like…
Sylvia: Listen, it’s been a day…
Keith: Don’t ever send this to Jack, but right now I’m looking at a GIF of a centipede killing and eating a snake.
Austin: No!!!!
Art: Putting forth the official motion to stop talking about millipedes and centipedes (laughs). 
Austin: I’m vetoing this whole direction (laughs). This is a safe space.
Sylvia: I literally haven’t clicked Discord because I know there’s an image in there—
Austin: I got rid of it. I got rid of it. It’s gone now. You’re good.
Keith: I did put a gif in the chat, but you don’t have to click on it. And it also warns you before you do anyway, so.
Austin: Don’t click that GIF.
Keith: Yeah. Don’t click that GIF.
Austin: Don’t copy that floppy.
Art: Don’t click that disc, yup.
(Keith laughs)
Austin: Hey what’s the? Oh, Pop Beans. Okay. Instead you should click this first link that Keith linked—
Dre: That looks really good.
Austin: —That was popped beans! These look good.
Keith: Yeah.
Art: That link doesn’t work, so don’t worry about that. I clicked on that link and it doesn’t.
Keith: Oh, it brings you to Pinterest and it’s right there. It’s the first thing.
Austin: I’m not going to go. I’m good, actually. 
———
Keith: It sounded like it was important for half a second.
Art: I’m just really angry at the idea of mascots this weekend because I went and saw Happy Death Day.
Austin: I really want to see that! Don’t spoil it.
Art: This isn’t a spoiler, but it’s set in a college campus. I guess, tell me when you think I’m spoiling something for you. This is a fictional college, it’s called like... it’s not Brighton, but it’s something with a B. And their mascot is a baby.
(Austin laughs loudly)
Art: And like, there’s just no way. I know this is a movie where time repeats itself, but like, there’s no way that that sports team is the like Bayside Babies or— that’s just not true.
(Keith laughs)
Art: That just isn’t a thing that would happen in the world.
Austin: Yup! 
———
Art: Well, they make a lot of episodes of a talk— a talk show is on a lot.
Ali: Yeah, true.
Art: It’s like Judge Judy does an insane number of episodes a year and is also the highest paid person in show business. 
Jack: Really?
Keith: Yes, she has a lot of money. 
Austin: But by total, right? Not by hour. 
Art: But she gets like 80 million a year to do Judge Judy, a show that costs literally nothing.
Keith: Yeah. I mean, that’s where the money goes to.
Ali: It’s just to her (chuckles)!
Keith: Yeah. Well, I guess the rest of the money is that— I don’t know if this is common knowledge about Judge Judy or not, but if you go on Judge Judy, you get your money back whether, like, whoever— everybody gets the money.
Ali: Yeah, they pay for the settlement.
Keith: They pay for the settlement.
Ali: And for hotel and travel. 
Art: They also pay the audience. Their audience is paid audience.
Keith: That’s dope, I would get paid to watch Judge Judy.
Art: —Because they want to be able to be mean to you. You can’t be mean to a free audience.
(Jack laughs)
Austin: Just generally?
Jack: Yeah. Conceptually and actually frightening. 
Keith: Yeah, I agree. I’ve never thought that Judge Judy would be someone that would be nice to me.
Austin: Mmmm—
Keith: I’ve always imagined that if I met Judge Judy, she’d be mean. 
Austin: Do you think you’d— Oh, I thought you were saying you would be able to bring her over to your side. 
Keith: No, no, no. I think that if I ever met Judge Judy, she’d be like, “what are you looking at? Stop. Get out of here!”
Austin: Yes, 100 percent. That’s exactly what I imagine would happen if you met Judge Judy. 
(Ali laughs)
Austin: It would be… it would be great. Like, I want to see this now. Could you sue somebody?
Keith: It would be a great show, but it would be hard for me.
Austin: Yes, like for the rest— Yes. 
Jack: She’s quoted on her Wikipedia page as saying, “if you live to be 100, you will never be as smart as I am, sir”. Which is a hell of a thing for a judge to say to somebody (laughs).
(Ali laughs)
Keith: Yeah. She’s really. She’s really snippy. 
Art: But you don’t know how who she said that to. That could be…
Jack: She said it to a cat.
Keith: Oh, a total idiot, I guess.
Art: What if that was like a 99-year old man—
(Keith laughs)
Art: —who is known to not be smart.
Keith: “You’ve got one more year to be as smart as me, and you’re not going to make it, buddy!”
Austin: That’s the worst…
Jack: Wait, that’s worse! That’s a worse thing!
(Keith laughs)
Austin: This is the worst Billy Madison remake I’ve ever heard. 
(Ali and Keith laugh)
Austin: “Adam Sandler is 99-years old. He has one year.”
Art: “He’s gotta beat Judge Judy in an IQ test.” (laughs)
Austin: “To take over his father’s business.”
Jack: Wait, how old is Judge Judy? Place your bets, how old do you think Judge Judy is?
Austin: 73?
Art: 68.
Jack: Right. So good news. She is 74. Additionally, I misread a box on the Google Search and thought that she was— (laughs)
Austin: Uh huh?
Jack: 5099.
(Austin, Ali, Art, and Keith laugh loudly)
Ali: That’s a big mistake.
Austin: Judge Judy Susan Sheindlin, the Lich. The ancient Babylonian Lich.
Art: That’s why nobody’s as smart as her!
Keith: Yeah, guess what, magic is real, it’s just hard to find. The only real example of magic that we have is that Judge Judy is 5000 years old (laughs). We know that Judge Judy—
Art: Judge Judy was there when the Pyramids were built.
Keith:—we just can’t find any other examples of it.
Austin: She isn’t a judge, she is the First Judge.
(all laugh)
Austin: Ancient Sumeria. If you look at the first Sumerian tablet, she’s on there, just really chewing somebody out for being a jerk.
Jack: This also, honestly, explains the “if you live to be 100” comment.
(all laugh)
Keith: It’s Judge Judy Hammurabi. 
Austin: Right. That’s it. I’ve always wondered!
Art: Judge is her actual first name, too. All judges are named after her.
Austin: Classic Judge Judy quotes like, “if a man commits a murder, then that man must be killed” (laughs). “If a man commits a kidnapping, he has to be imprisoned and pay 15 shekels of silver.” Classic Judge Judy!
Art: Other classic Judge Judy quote: “What up, Jesus, who I’m older than?”
(all laugh)
Art: Oh, well, I guess like 3000 years.
Jack: Well, good old Judge Judy. Thanks, Judge Judy. 
Keith: It’s really that… the biblical literalists that think that the Earth is only 5000 years old, how do you contend with that Judge Judy is 5100 years old?
Art: I think 12000 is the age of the Earth, according to biblical literalists. 
Keith: Oh, I thought it was 5000 or 6000.
Austin: I thought it was six. Is it not six?
Art: I thought it was 12— because you have to add up all the ages of everyone. 
(Ali laughs)
Austin: I’m checking here. 6000, says the Bible.
Jack: No, wait, how old is the Earth.
Art: Oh, so Judge Judy came along a year later.
Jack: Oh, right. Yeah. So how old is the Earth?
Art: Judge Judy Sheindlin Hammurabi Lilith, I think is her full name. 
(Keith and Ali laugh)
(Austin sighs)
Austin: 4.54 billion.
Art: It also explains why she’s Jewish!
Austin: Right. She’s been around. She knows.
Art: Yeah. 
Keith: Ooold lady.
Jack: 5909 is actually the number of episodes she’s done, which is also a lot.
Austin: (chuckles) One a year.
Keith: It also, her being 5000 years old really takes the punch out of saying that if a man was 100, he wouldn’t be as smart as her.
Austin: That’s— exactly. That’s the problem.
Jack: It’s like a tiny baby. 
Art: Yeah. People who are 100 years old are basically infants to her.
Austin: She’s also an elf.
(crosstalking)
Austin: Alright, we should time.is.
Keith: Oh, I was feeling really lethargic before we started, this Judge Judy talk really brought me out of it.
Jack: Wait, just double-checking, everybody was recording, right?
Austin: Oh yeah. I have an OBS going, too. Should be good.
Jack: Cool.
Austin: I’m a liar, my OBS had not started yet.
Ali: I might still have my OBS going from yesterday—
Austin: Oh no. You should hit stop on that and start a new one right now. Because otherwise you’d have to risk that your whole computer will die.
Ali: What a fucking idiot. Anyway… (laughs)
Austin: No, no stop that OBS, fix that OBS before we clap.
Ali: I did! I did do that. And yup, mm-hmm, we’re doing it.
Austin: Let’s clap at…
Keith: Five seconds?
Austin: Yeah. Five seconds.
(claps)
Austin: That was good. 
Keith: Yeah, it was a pretty good clap.
Austin: On my side, that sounded good.
Ali: Same!
Art: If always sounds good to me, but I’m so far away from everyone.
Jack: Yeah, same.
Keith: It was kind of like a wave, but it was a really short one. So I feel good about it.
________________
[1] The name in the audio recording is no longer in use, hence the audio/transcript discrepancy.