Clapcast 64: Peter's Elephantnose fish
Transcriber: robotchangeling


Jack: Welcome back to Fishteen Minutes, a daily podcast about fish, now reappearing on the Clapcast. We don't know how to fix it. We've been fired from the PBS contract. We complained about PBS–


Ali: We terminated our contract. We were not fired. We quit.


Jack: We quit. They said…what did they say? And then what did we say?


Ali: [laughs] They said, “Why did you spend all this money on this boat?” And we said…


Jack: We had to give the boat back.


Ali: “We're a fish podcast. We need to have a boat to look at the fish.” [Jack groans] And they said, “This isn't what we agreed to.”


Jack: No.


Ali: And I said, “Well, why did you give us the company card?” And they said, “Well, we thought that you were gonna buy aquarium supplies, not go to Outback Steakhouse.” 


Jack: Yeah. Yeah, and buy a boat from a guy in Outback Steakhouse.


Ali: [laughs] These are just the way things go in business. We've learned a lesson. Fishteen Minutes is independent once again. You can go to change.org to sign our petition to have PBS drop the lawsuit against us.


Jack: Yeah. You can also go to change.org/buy for our petition where we turn the tables and then we buy PBS.


Ali: Whoa. If–


Jack: And I'm going to make ‘em– yes?


Ali: If you owned PBS, what would you do?


Jack: I would stop them making that dogshit show about the English upper classes. [laughs] 


Ali: Oh, people love that show! 


Jack: Yeah, I’d forgotten you were an Abbeyhead. 


Ali: [laughs] Uh, yeah…


Jack: To be fair, I've never seen the episode, and I don't care for the showrunner. The impression I get is it's like fancy people and it's sort of an upstairs-downstairs type drama.


Ali: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.


Jack: But it's funny how the upstairs-downstairs type drama always ends up aligning with the class interests of upstairs. [Ali laughs] But maybe I'm underserving it.


Ali: You know, you know, if you– you know, [laughs quietly] sometimes you're a servant class, but you're proud of your work, you know? and you want to like…


Jack: Oh, uh huh? [both laugh] Been with the family for generations, have we?


Ali: It's your whole life, you know? And, you know, why change the old ways when you can support the people who have supported you?


Jack: Mm, mm, the (??? 2:39) [Ali laughs] What I would actually do is I’d bring Sesame Street back. 


Ali: True! Did that get canceled? Is that canceled?


Jack: Something bad has happened to Sesame Street.


Ali: I thought that it just got deleted from HBO Max?


Jack: It might have just been deleted from– I can't imagine that they would cancel Sesame Street.


Ali: [laughs quietly] Weren't people recently mad about a Sesame Street thing that was like completely normal, but they were like, “Sesame Street went woke!”


Jack: I feel like people have been– [both laugh quietly] Sesame Street has been fighting the good fight forever. 


Ali: Yeah.


Jack: I'm searching “Sesame Street went woke.” This is gonna suck. 


Ali: Wow.


Jack: No, people were complaining about Sesame Street. Conservatives want to defund PBS. Oh, shit! That was a YouTube video. No, I..what would you do if you owned PBS? When we own PBS?


Ali: When I own PBS, I’m going to bring back MTV’s Total Request Live.


Jack: What is that?


Ali: You don't know what Total Request Live is? 


Jack: No. 


Ali: Okay. [laughs] It was a show on MTV. It would be at around 3 p.m. It would be a live show, and what people would do– or I guess it was like a voting system that MTV maintained where you could like vote for the video that you most wanted to see, so it was a countdown of the 10 most popular music videos of the day. 


Jack: Wow!


Ali: And sometimes it would be like special guests. There was like a studio that they filmed it at in Times Square, so there was like a window where you could look out into Times Square. 


Jack: Oh, wow. 


Ali: There would be crowds there. People would be in the studio audience. It was hosted by Carson Daly.


Jack: I don't really know who that is, but his name I recognize repeatedly.


Ali: [laughs] Well, he was the host of Total Request Live for years. He was an MTV personality, and then he became a late show guy. 


Jack: Wouldn't this just…did it just regularly recreate the top 40? Or…


Ali: Well, it sort of would, and there would be a lot of over– like, you'd get a lot of like, oh, Beyonce was the number one music video for this whole week, but then the next week, she would fall to number two, because something else would come out.


Jack: Oh, right.


Ali: And it would be this sort of like, are you going to maintain the consistency of like really voting for your number one? Or is it going to be like, oh, who dropped to number seven today from number three?


Jack: Yeah.


Ali: Plus, it was like you go home from school and all your favorite music videos are on with your friend Carson Daly.


Jack: Yeah. I think that we have really lost a way of interacting with media through the rapid advent of the internet and social media. [Ali laughs] Like, I feel like top 40 shows or watching music videos on actual television tuning in, or like even just being like at the hairdresser's and there being music videos on TV or something. 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Jack: I feel like that kind of culture is just gone now, because it's like on YouTube or whatever.


Ali: Right. Well, it's such a weird thing, because it's not like we've lost the sort of like, “oh, everybody's going to talk about what's going on in culture this week” or whatever, but it seems like it's manufactured. Like how Netflix keeps– this is a conspiracy theory, maybe. [laughs] But like, how–


Jack: Let’s just reproduce it on air. 


Ali: [laughs] Like a new Netflix thing would come out, and it would feel like there was this sort of like faux excitement around it, where there would be a lot of people tweeting about it, and because a lot of people were tweeting about it, people would watch it, and it would sort of like manifest more.


Jack: Oh, yeah, no.


Ali: Like when Birdbox got really popular. 


Jack: Birdbox! Yeah.


Ali: That wasn't genuine.


Jack: No. No. [Ali laughs] And of course, like, there has always been like PR. This has always happened to like greater and lesser extents.


Ali: Right.


Jack: In terms of like paying for radio plays, and in terms of, you know, like…


Ali: Oh, 100 percent. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Jack: That stuff always happened, but you're right, it does feel particularly…the fact that it's almost as though everything is happening all the time all at once.


Ali: Right. [laughs] 


Jack: Where it’s like everybody is tweeting about Birdbox, and then also everybody's tweeting about the Harry Styles music video. You know the Harry Styles music video for, um, “Adore You”? Have you seen– are you familiar with this video, Ali?


Ali: I'm not. I have not looked much into his career.


Jack: He falls in love with a fish. Oh, fish!


Ali: Ooh. What kind of fish?


Jack: Oh! We found the podcast! What the fuck?


Ali: [laughs] Is this just gonna be a live commentary of Harry Styles’s “Adore You”?


Jack: I think he's got enough. He's got enough stans. [Ali laughs] I think Harry Styles is fine.


Ali: Well, now we're here to tell it like it is.


Jack: Oh, we're here to tell– Harry Styles? Ugh! Always wearing those dresses and things. 


Ali: I know.


Jack: Harry Styles. I think some of his music is fine. What's the Harry Styles song I like? I like “Adore You”. I like…strawberry? “Watermelon Sugar”.


Ali: Oh, sure. Yeah, you know, fine songs to have on. I'm not seeking out his music. I was never a One Direction person.


Jack: I was never a One Direction person. Were you ever much of a boy band person? I don't think I was ever much of a boy band person.


Ali: I mean, I am now. [laughs] Like, I'm Army. Like, I'm BTS Army, so yes. [both laugh] When I was a kid, I was more NSYNC than I was Backstreet Boys, but I liked both of their music. I was way more into the Spice Girls than either of them.


Jack: I was a Spice Girls person, yeah. 


Ali: Ooh, okay.


Jack: Through and through.


Ali: Wow.


Jack: Never much– like, I was British. I was British, and I am British.


Ali: Okay. [laughs] 


Jack: That will remain. 


Ali: Okay. 


Jack: The Spice Girls phenomenon in Britain was inescapable and extraordinary.


Ali: Really?


Jack: Like, everything, everywhere. And I feel like I wouldn't necessarily have called myself a Spice Girls fan, because that's just how you were. That's just what life was when you were that age. You were like, “Well, yes, I guess everybody is a Spice Girls fan, and they make great music.” And now, only now, looking back on it, I'm like, yeah, I guess we were all really into the Spice Girls as a nation, and I really like the Spice Girls now.


Ali: Okay. Wow. I'm fascinated by this, because it's interesting to think of like how different of a cultural impact they would have made there. Was there this sort of like home team sort of pride of being like…


Jack: Yes. Oh, absolutely. [Ali laughs] Like, we’re the biggest band in the world, and it's just a load of girls from Britain. 


Ali: Sure. Sure.


Jack: And you know, like, one of them was all British, right? I mean, you know. She had like the Union Jack and everything as her…it’s Baby Spice, Sporty Spice, Ginger Spice, Scary Spice, and…


Ali: I think you're specifically thinking of a sleeveless dress that Ginger Spice would occasionally wear that was…


Jack: That had the Union Jack on it. 


Ali: Yeah, that had the Union Jack. But they were all British. 


Jack: They were all British.


Ali: They were all into being… [laughs] You know, none of them were hiding it.


Jack: No, no. And they were from all over Britain as well, right? 


Ali: Oh.


Jack: Like, I think a few of them are from like further up north. They’re more than just being like a London band or whatever, which I like a lot. Have you seen the most– Ali, have you seen the most recent series of The Circle?


Ali: No.


Jack: The US reality show The Circle?


Ali: Oh! Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. I've seen, I think, approximately one season of it.


Jack: Okay. I like that show quite a bit, and…


Ali: It's so funny. It’s so goofy. [laughs] 


Jack: It is. It's like a hidden information game meets a reality show. It's just very fun.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Jack: The Spice Girls, two of the Spice Girls—Scary Spice and Baby Spice—are on the most recent season, playing as one person.


Ali: What?


Jack: Yeah, yes, yes. Yes. 


Ali: Wow.


Jack: And it turns out that Baby Space and Scary Spice are just like…this is no surprise. They are extremely charismatic and extremely funny to watch [Ali: “Mm-hmm”] and have really good chemistry with each other. And so it turns out that just like watching…the way The Circle works is, you know, you spend a lot of time watching these people in like a reality TV show sort of candid-style setting. And watching these two women talk and being like, “Oh my god, it's the Spice Girls. This is what the Spice Girls are like,” was just a really fun… [Ali laughs] Like, these two women, you know, they wrote “Spice Up Your Life”.


Ali: They wrote “Spice Up Your Life”.


Jack: They wrote it at the piano.


Ali: I guess, just for the audience at home, The Circle is a Netflix reality TV series where the contestants are all isolated in their own sort of like…


Jack: Suites, I guess. 


Ali: Yeah. Suites, apartments, by Netflix, connected to like a very bizarre [Jack, laughs: “A clearly fake internet”] internet social media situation. Where like, sometimes there will be special chats where everybody can talk together. Sometimes you'll be awarded the chance to like DM somebody. And basically what you have to do is try to get to the end of the game by being well liked, I guess? Like, it's such a weird premise, [Jack: “Yeah”] because everybody wants to win, and everybody's like, “Well, I'm either gonna be myself or I'm gonna lie, and I'm gonna get to the end of The Circle,” but it's really just like…you just go into the daily chatroom every day, [Jack: “Just vibe”] and you're like, “What's up?”


Jack: Yep, “Hi, everybody.” [Ali laughs] You vote for influencers, two influencers, 
[Ali: “Yeah”] and then the influencers vote for…


Ali: Who goes home.


Jack: Who’s going to be eliminated, basically. Yeah, it sets out with this like real high concept premise of like, “Are people gonna pretend to be catfishes or whatever?” And like, people invariably do, but really, it does just– it's just watching these like big personalities bounce off each other, only over text. [Ali laughs] It's a fun show. 


Ali: It's such a bizarre like watching experience, because most of it is really just like watching someone walking on a treadmill, [Jack: “Yep”] speaking out loud to like a computer that's probably run by some Netflix intern behind them, being like…


Jack: Like, Adam is… [both laugh] 


Ali: And it's like, “Hey, can you open a private chat with Sandra?”


Jack: “Open a private chat with Yu Ling.” Ba-boomp!


Ali: [laughs] And then it's like, “Hey, Sandra. Really funny joke in the chat today.”


Jack: Hashtag ‘funny joke,’ hashtag ‘Sandra in the chat.’


Ali: [laughs claps] They're constantly using chat hashtags, and then they have to like–


Jack: I want like…


Ali: If you're somebody who likes to hear people describe emoji out loud, search Emojidrome 2.0 on your podcast app of choice.


Jack: Oh, yeah.


Ali: But then also check out The Circle on Netflix. [laughs] 


Jack: Because they’ll be like, “Hashtag ‘Sandra laughing,’ and then I want an emoji of someone laughing because of something Sandra said in the chat, please.” And then they…and then it appears. [both laugh] Anyway, it turns out that it was very, very funny to watch two members of the greatest girl band of all time do that.


Ali: Wha– [laughs] 


Jack: Are you disputing that the Spice Girls are the greatest girl band of all time?


Ali: The greatest of all time?


Jack: Ali, who is your next candidate?


Ali: Loonatheworld. Loona, the girls of the month. [Jack laughs quietly] I would also say like, you know, somebody would come in here and say like Girls Generation. Somebody would say like Twice, for instance. And, you know…


Jack: Is Destiny's Child a girl band?


Ali: I think Destiny's Child is a girl band, yeah. 


Jack: Ah…


Ali: See?


Jack: No, it's the Spice Girls. It's the Spice Girls.


Ali: It is the– I mean, I think in my heart of hearts, if I was going to say the best girl band in the world, it would probably be the Spice Girls.


Jack: [laughs] I just got a text from KB in the other room, who, again, I want to be clear, can only hear my– cannot hear out of my headphones. 


Ali: Mm.


Jack: And they just texted me, “Did Ali say Loona? [Ali laughs] Girls’ Generation.”


Ali: They're my number one. 


Jack: They are your number one! Of course they’re your number one.


Ali: I mean, yeah. 


Jack: Yeah.


Ali: I’m a fan. 


Jack: Orbit.


Ali: They make good music. They're a good band.


Jack: Yeah. [Ali laughs] But did they write–


Ali: What fish are we talking about? [laughs] 


Jack: But did they write, “Stop right now, thank you very much. I need somebody with a human touch. Hey you, always on the run–” 


Ali: They did write “Stylish”. 


Jack: [laughs quietly] They did write “Stylish”.


Ali: You know. So, if we're gonna go song by song, we can do that. [laughs] 


Jack: Did they “Wannabe”?


Ali: They didn't write “Wannabe”, but they did write “WOW”. “Wow wow, wow wow.”


Jack: They did write that. [Ali laughs] KB just texted me, “To be fair, the Spice Girls never went to Eden.”


Ali: [laughs] See? What's the Spice Girls lore?


Jack: No.


Ali: They all met each other?


Jack: What is the Spice Girls lore? What is the Spice Girls lore?


Ali: Nothing. Oh, wait, have you seen the Spice Girls movie?


Jack: They have two movies, right? There's two.


Ali: There's two movies? I only know about the one, and I want to say it was historic. Spice World released on January 24, which is my birthday, [Jack: “Wait”] and it felt like being looked at by God. [both laugh] Like, when I was…when did that movie come out? Spice World.


Jack: That movie came out in 1997.


Ali: 1997. I turned eight years old on the US release of Spice World.


Jack: That's the perfect age.


Ali: Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. I was pretty jazzed.


Jack: Wow!


Ali: It's a great movie too.


Jack: It ends with them– with a bomb exploding?


Ali: [laughs] It was so good. I think there's a bomb on the bus. There's like a funny speed section that absolute–


Jack: Hugh Laurie is in this movie, and he plays Hercule Poirot.


Ali: Yeah. This is a fantastic movie. You should seek it out. You should watch it.


Jack: Wow! Wow. Well. What podcast is this?


Ali: [laughs] This is Girl Groups by Jack de Quidt and Alicia Acampora, where we're talking about your favorite girl groups.


Jack: We're talking about your favorite girl groups. My favorite girl group– do you know who my favorite girl group is? 


Ali: Who? 


Jack: It's Peters's elephantnose fish.


Ali: [laughs] Peters’s elephantnose fish.


Jack: Peters’s elephantnose fish. 


Ali: Wow, what a…


Jack: And I'm setting the timer. What are we looking at here, Ali?


[0:19:00]


Ali: We are looking at… [laughs] just a fantastic creature. You know what? Exactly what you think it is. Picture a fish in your mind. You got sort of flat, you know, thinner in the front. Body sort of gets wider, then sort of pinches together, and then comes out in a big tail. This one is a long fish, I would say.


Jack: Yeah, I think so. Or long compared to the neon tetra.


Ali: [laughs] And it’s as if, really, if you saw a fish smoking a little cigarette. Such is the elephant nose on the elephantnose fish. But it also looks like an elephant nose if you look at it from the front. Like, they really named it correctly.


Jack: It's got a long nose. 


Ali: It's got a long nose.


Jack: Other names in English are the long-nosed elephant fish, which is, yeah, totally.


Ali: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. I do like how far back the fins are. Like, you get a long stretch of fish there. Just, you know, consistent width.


Jack: That's, yeah.


Ali: And then it really opens up in the back there and then really thins out, and then you get this this gorgeous little almost dolphin tail, I would say.


Jack: Do you think the midsection is for storage? [Ali laughs] What were you gonna say?


Ali: It’s just, this is a photo of, I want to say, maybe five or six of them all in a tank. 


Jack: Oh! Look at them!


Ali: [laughs] And they’re just…


Jack: They are all in a tank. 


Ali: They're digging for gold down there. This is from…if you go to tankaddict.com/peters-elephantnose-fish-care.


Jack: And they're all pointing downwards.


Ali: Yeah, they’re all digging for gold with those little noses.


Jack: They are getting the gold, and they are going to sell it to the gold dealer. 


Ali: Ohh.


Jack: Yeah. But the thing about this fish is that it is electric.


Ali: What?


Jack: Its nose is electric. 


Ali: What are you–?


Jack: Its nose makes electricity. 


Ali: What are you saying? 


Jack: Its nose is electric, and it has the electric power in its nose.


Ali: [laughs] But doesn't water conduct electricity?


Jack: That is a great question. [laughs] Based on the fact that, as I understand it, this fish doesn't instantly die the moment it is born, [both laugh] makes me think that it is a low enough electricity that it does not give it the problem. It is covered in electroreceptors, and it uses a weak electric field which it generates with specialized cells called electrocytes, which evolved from muscle cells, [Ali: “Electrocytes?”] to find food, to navigate in dark or turbid waters—a kind of water I did not know existed—and to find a mate. They live for up to six to 10 years. It can detect prey and worms in the substrate. I guess that's what it's doing when it's digging for gold.


Ali: Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait. [laughs] 


Jack: Yes?


Ali: Stop the presses.


Jack: Yes? You learned something?


Ali: “The weak electric fields generated by this fish can be made audible by placing two electrodes in the fish tank, [Jack: “What?”] connected to an audio amplifier or a piezoelectric earbud.”


Jack: What?


Ali: Are you kidding me?


Jack: What sound does it make?


Ali: What sound does it make? Okay, wait. Youtube.com. Peters’s elephantnose fish sound.


Jack: Oh my God. Have you seen the picture of them trying to make it make a sound?


Ali: [laughs] No. 


Jack: It's so funny. Oh my god! Okay, so, this picture is of, I would describe, a small blue school fish tank. [Ali gasps] And in the fish tank, with no sand or anything, is this fish.


Ali: But they’re just little guys!


Jack: It's clearly just been put here for the experiment. It has been wired up with crocodile clips. It looks like this fish is taking a lie detector test. [both laugh] And coming out of it is a speaker that they’re– I have to know what this sounds like.


Ali: I found one.


Jack: Yeah? 


Ali: I found a YouTube video called “Listening to elephant nose fish”. It's a five minute long vid–


Jack: Yes?


Ali: Okay, sorry. I would skip to 3.3– okay, I'll just send it to you timestamped. If you find this at home, it is 3.38 seconds. I don't know how to do it. Oh, wait. You hit Share, and then you– okay. [laughs] 


Jack: [laughs] Brief confusion here. Okay, listening to elephant nose fish.


Ali: 3 minutes 38 seconds, yeah. This guy has said that his speaker isn't that good, and I didn't listen to the first three minutes, because we're on a timer. 


Jack: Oh. 


Ali: It's like a creaking sound.


Jack: Oh, he's gonna feed it and see if he makes more excited noises.


Ali: What if the sound changes?


Jack: He's dropping it in? He's telling us about how sonar is working. Oh, oh!


Ali: Ooh.


Jack: They've gotten more excited. The food dropped in, and the clicks sort of became…


Ali: Okay, so, we pick it up as clicks, but for the fish, it's more of a pulse.


Jack: Huh. So, it’s like a physical…


Ali: According to How to Timindustry on youtube.com. [laughs] 


Jack: Thank you, my friend. I appreciate it. 


Ali: That’s fascinating.


Jack: This fish has never been bred in captivity, [Ali: “Oh!”] meaning that all aquarium available specimens are wild caught. 


Ali: Wow.


Jack: So, every elephant fish you have ever seen…


Ali: Including the one that we just saw making those clicks and…


Jack: Was originally from the ocean.


Ali: They haven't figured it out? Are they just shy?


Jack: Um, the fish is apparently quite shy, yes. It says, um…yes, apparently this is quite a shy one.


Ali: Mm…ooh.


Jack: Typically docile when kept in captivity, although unless kept in an aquarium of over 400 I, [Ali: “Wow”] elephantnose fish are aggressively territorial towards members of their own species. Huh. But the most interesting thing about this fish is that it has the largest brain-to-body oxygen use ratio of all known vertebrates, around 0.6.


Ali: Wait a minute. Brain-to-body oxygen use? 


Jack: Yeah.


Ali: Does that mean that its brain is hogging up all the oxygen?


Jack: I think it does. Well, what's ours? Human brain-to-body oxygen use ratio.


Ali: Yeah, why do you need to know this? Let my brain use all the oxygen it wants.


Jack: Would you like to know how much your brain uses? [laughs] 


Ali: I mean, sure. I mean, I guess I gotta.


Jack: Your brain uses between 20 and 25% of the oxygen that you take in.


Ali: Okay.


Jack: Which is quite small, whereas this fish uses 60. It uses 60%!


Ali: What do you think is going on in there?


Jack: Well, it’s thinking very hard. [laughs quietly] 


Ali: Well, do you think it's because the electricity takes oxygen? Hmm. 


Jack: Well, its brain…


Ali: What’s that fish thinking about?


Jack: What is this? Why? I'm googling. Why elephantnose brain so big? [both laugh] Small brains–


Ali: I like these fish, because they're nocturnal and apparently they prefer to live amongst a lot of plants. They like to live around submerged branches and muddy slow-moving rivers.


Jack: Huh.


Ali: It's just hanging out.


Jack: They can switch between their eyes and their…they can switch between electrical and visual senses, in the same way that a person can switch between sight and touch, which is interesting. 


Ali: Okay. 


Jack: “The ability to recognize objects across different senses is regarded as an evolutionary plus, because it provides the animal with greater sensory flexibility.” This is newatlas.com. “However, it's been thought that this ability was confined to certain highly developed mammals, including monkeys, dolphins, rats, and humans, because information processing was thought to require a cerebral cortex. That is, until the elephantnose fish came along.” And here's a very good picture of the elephantnose fish.


Ali: Oh, ew! Oh my god. That isn't the picture that you just sent me. I just saw a different one. I'm sorry. This is a great picture. The picture that you just sent, like a flat ink illustration.


Jack: Beautiful ink drawing.


Ali: Beautiful. Yeah, adds a lot of humanity to the fish. The eye is very, uh…


Jack: Looks a little birdlike. 


Ali: Looks a little birdlike but very expressive, very fine detail on the fins here. What I have seen…


Jack: Uh oh.


Ali: I hate this image. I hate this image. So– okay, I hate this. [laughs] So, it is a zoom in on the fish's face, where you can only see the–


Jack: Oh no!


Ali: Yeah. You can only see the very front of the head to the nose. It is a zoom in on the nose, where there is apparently a separation.


Jack: Yes, because it's actually its mouth.


Ali: Because it's actually its mouth. The elephant nose is really just a really long bottom lip. 


Jack: Oh no!


Ali: [laughs] Ew! What this image is showing is like the mouth is fully open here and is eating a little worm, and I hate viewing it.


Jack: It’s eating a worm that looks like a joke drawing of a caterpillar.


Ali: [laughs] You will find this on the Google Image search for Peters's elephantnose fish. It is from ourmarinespecies.com. I loved to look at this fish, and now I hate–


Jack: Why is its brain so big? 


Ali: Well, I mean, if you were a fish, you would have a lot to think about. You'd be looking for worms, first and foremost. You would be thinking about the temperature of the water. You would be– they really are little. In photos, they look like they're big, but here is a– aww, look at this little baby! [both laugh] This is one of these fishes next to a human hand.


Jack: [gasps] Oh! 


Ali: Nary the size of a finger. 


Jack: So little.


Ali: This is a neon tetra sized elephantnose fish. Hasn't even grown the nose yet. Barely has a little nub there for its nose. 


Jack: Wow!


Ali: This is from featurecreature.com.


Jack: Do you know this fish or a similar fish was significant and holy in ancient Egyptian religion? 


Ali: Whoa!


Jack: Yeah! You ready for this, Ali? Because this is–


Ali: I’m trying to be.


Jack: No, Ali, you need to be prepared.


Ali: Okay.


Jack: You need to be prepared for the second sentence. 


Ali: [laughs] Okay.


Jack: Sentence one: “Medjed was a species of the family elephant fish, worshipped at Oxyrhynchus in ancient Egyptian religion.” And I'll put a little picture here of a bronze figurine of the elephant fish that was made, which is really cool.


Ali: Ooh. 


Jack: Let me just post this in here, and then I'll move on to the second sentence: “These fish were believed to have eaten the penis of the god Osiris, after his brother Set had dismembered and scattered the god’s body. A settlement in Upper Egypt, Per-Medjed, was named after the fish and is now better known under its Greek name, Oxyrhynchus, meaning ‘sharp-nosed’ or ‘town of the sharp-nosed fish,’ [Ali laughs] a nod to the Egyptian depiction of the species.” Isn't that great? 


Ali: Town…


Jack: This is a holy fish who ate Osiris’s penis after he had been dismembered by his brother, and they named a town after it. 


Ali: I remember that Destiny raid. 


Jack: God, that Destiny raid is great! 


Ali: [laughs] Wow.


Jack: That Destiny raid…it is a little too long, though, and the mechanics in the final encounter are bullshit.


Ali: [laughs] I didn’t really like the jumping, yeah.


Jack: Yeah. 


Ali: Wow. So, wow, okay. This is setting in now. I said that I was ready.


Jack: This is the holiest fish that we’ve found. Yet. 


Ali: Yet.


Jack: And it had a town named after it.


Ali: This is holy week on Fishteen Minutes. [laughs] So, the story is that Set came up to his brother and was like, “I'm cutting you up into pieces. I'm going to spread your body across the land.”


Jack: “That’s it for you, buddy.”


Ali: Yeah. “Whatever beef we have, this is the end of it, ‘cause I'm cutting you up.” And then the penis happened to to get eaten by this fish, and now they're like, “Whoa. Shoutouts to this fish.”


Jack: I believe so. Well, so, what happened was…Osiris is killed by Typhon, who is identified with Set.


Ali: Okay.


Jack: Who divides the body into 26 pieces, which he distributed—oh, this is clever—which he distributed among his fellow conspirators in order to implicate them in the murder. 


Ali: [gasps] Ooh.


Jack: [dramatic] Isis recovered all parts of Osiris’s body…except for one.


Ali: [laughs] They recovered the fish, though?


Jack: [laughs quietly] No! They named a town after it.


Ali: Sure.


Jack: Oh, maybe that is why the fish is venerated or was venerated, because it's like, that's kind of the last bit.


Ali: It’s godly, yeah. You are what you eat, and then you’re a god fish. 


Jack: Ah! The alarm just went off! 


Ali: [laughs] And that's been another episode of Fishteen Minutes.


Jack: That has been another episode of Fishteen Minutes. [Ali laughs] I think that we might be able to– I think we're gonna be able to fix the Clapcast problem now. I think.


Ali: Right.


Jack: I don't know, Ali. Ah, I think you're going into the works with a wrench an electronic screwdriver and…


Ali: Yeah. You will continue to be able to find us over on fishteenminutes.org.


Jack: Dot net.


Ali: You will no longer be able to find us over on friendsatthetable dot…


Jack: Cash.


Ali: Cash.


Jack: I have been Jack de Quidt. You can find me on Twitter at @notquitereal.


Ali: My name is Ali Acampora, and you can find me over at @ali_west on Twitter.


Jack: And that's gonna do it for us. Have a great rest of your day.


[PALISADE end music]