Clapcast 56: Bubbling Like Shrimp
Transcriber: robotchangeling


Austin: We should time.is. Or, a thing I've been made aware of during this recording: time.gov.


Jack: Wha— [laughs] 


Janine: No. No! Absolutely not!


Austin: You should look— you need to look at it on call.


Dre: Whoa!


Austin: ‘Cause it’s a nightmare. 


Jack: Oh my god.


Ali: Oh, wow. 


Janine: Ew. Where— ugh.


Austin: It’s so… [laughs] 


Janine: There's no quote on this. 


Jack: I will say that the—


Austin: [laughs softly] Yes, there is. “Daylight saving time not observed. Clocks are corrected for network delay.” Classic quote.


Janine: [disapproving] Hmm.


Jack: The only correct time for me currently being shown on this screen—or there’s two—is Your Device's Clock and then Samoa Standard Time on the left.


Austin: Huh.


Jack: Which is also the correct time for me right now.


Austin: Is it?


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: Or, wait, is the A.M./P.M. correct?


Jack: Oh, no, no, no. Yeah, no, the A.M. and P.M. is not correct.


Austin: It’s off by— yeah, uh huh. That’s very funny. 


Ali: Yeah, that's a different spot from (???  0:54)


Austin: Shoutouts to the National Institute… [Ali laughs] It is a different spot.


Jack: Mm, mm-hmm.


Austin: By quite a bit, I would say. [laughs] 


Jack: [laughs] This is—


Janine: Oh, they have a scientific integrity summary.


Dre: Ooh.


Janine: Time.is doesn't have one of those.


Austin: This is what I'm saying. They have an accessibility statement. They have all sorts of stuff on this. Over here…over here, I don’t…what is this?


Jack: Maybe this site is good, actually. It's kind of like chaos time.is.


Dre: Hey, what is the No Fear Act policy? 


Janine: I don’t like it.


Austin: Yeah, I also clicked that.


Janine: What?


Austin: It seems to be about anti-discrimination? Which, that seems good, but the name of it makes me think it's like some sort of terrorism law, and that’s, uh…


Dre: Or it’s they all gotta own one of those shirts.


Janine: Is this relevant to clocks? [Jack laughs]


Dre: They gotta have No Fear shirts. 


Janine: How is this relevant to the time?


Austin: The No Fear Act, agencies must pay for settlements, awards, or judgments against them in whistleblower and discrimination cases out of their own budgets. 


Janine: Okay.


Austin: So if there was corruption at the National Institute of Standards and Technology—


Janine: [crosstalk] At the clock place?


Austin: —it would have to come out of the NIST's budget and not like some other budget, apparently. 


Janine: Well, that makes sense. 


Austin: I don't know why that's called the No Fear Act. We should clap.


Jack: Now I'm on the Wikipedia page for time in Arizona, because—


Austin: Oh my god. 


Jack: And I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm just fascinated by whatever the hell is going on down there.


Austin: Oh, it’s a mess, right?


Dre: Mm-hmm. 


Austin: I love it. There's a little circle— there’s like an island where the time is different. 


Jack: Yep.


Janine: Oh my god.


Jack: It's the Hopi reservation.


Austin: Oh, that makes sense. Okay. 


Janine: Oh!


Austin: Sure.


Jack: What I actually googled was “Arizona Mountain Standard Time documentary,” ‘cause I wanted to see if someone would talk to me for an hour about what was going on here. But no one seems to have made a documentary about time in Arizona.


Austin: There you go. All right, we should actually do a regular clap.


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Jack: Yeah, let’s do it. I'm going to time.is.


Austin: Me too.


Jack: I can’t cope with this.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Janine: No, I don't like it.


Austin: Shoutouts to Cameron Kunzelman, who said, “We recorded a show with someone today, and he revealed time.gov to us. I told him that we believed in free market solutions, so we used time.is. [Austin, Jack, and Janine laugh] I don't quite know how he took it; hard to read. But I had a good time saying it.”


[musical transition: 0:2:57]


Keith: A lot of people still haven't even used VR yet. 


Austin: Uh huh.


Keith: Like, it's so— that's how uncommon it is, is I think the vast majority, not just like the majority, but the vast majority of people have never tried like modern VR. 


Austin: Yep.


Keith: And the last one that I used was the VIVE. And I had a lot of fun doing the stuff that you could do in there, but it also reveals how extremely limiting or limited of a thing it is. Like, my big takeaway from the VIVE—which I talked about during one of our Game of the Year things—was like, I could imagine having like a cool living room. And like, hey, I don't have a big TV in my house. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Keith: But I can have this thing that like puts a pretend big TV for me to watch movies on in front of me. 


Austin: Yep. 


Keith: And that's cool, like being in an empty— but then as soon as you start introducing interacting with other people, needing to see where you are in a space, needing to see where other people are in a space, having to like act like that's…having to turn it from a virtual void into like a digital social space. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Keith: It never…I just can't even imagine that tech doing that.


Austin: Well, and the pathways to that. The tech that's gonna get there first is the tech that’s gonna have a lot of money behind it that's owned by big platforms. Those things are going to be walled gardens, that maybe if you're really into it you can hack your way out of, right?


Janine: Mm-hmm.


Austin: So that you can get the free private living room big TV experience you want. But by default, the thing out of the box is going to be a thing that's caught up in established marketplaces.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: The majority of people are going to have to give their money to Facebook or Amazon or Google or whatever, right?


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: And be stuck in that space.


Keith: Well, the VIVE already does that. That's the thing about the VIVE, is that you already have a big TV in there.


Austin: Right, right, right. I mean, well, and also VIVE is going to be coming from one of the few companies that is going to be more open in that way. But no one's gonna buy a VIVE, because VIVEs are just so fucking expensive, right?


Keith: They’re super expensive. And that's all they do. They do VR. 


Austin: I quite like— right. I quite like the Quest. Like, I think the Oculus Quest is like a great form factor. 


Janine: Yeah, me too.


Austin: I enjoy using it. But I think the other half of it is like the other part of the Metaverse thing is like, and Janine, I know you've said this a bunch, like, these spaces have existed. This is Second Life. This is Roblox.


Janine: Yeah.


Austin: Like, none of this is new.


Keith: Right.


Austin: People are using these spaces, and in both cases are kind of infantilized for doing it or made fun of in various ways.


Janine: Yes.


Austin: Right? So, like…


Janine: Yeah. 


Austin: Ugh. But the thing that is going to be extremely— the part of it to me that is like actually going to get extremely real is it is going to become cool for some subset of people, of terrible people, that when you hold up your phone's camera to their shoes, it projects a hologram— not an actual hologram. It projects a, quote unquote, AR projection around it of, you know, I don't know, Dame Lillard doing a dunk or Drake rapping. And that is going to— and you're going to spend $300 to get it to do that, and that is going to make some people fucking money, and they're gonna call that the first step towards the Metaverse. 


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: And it's going to suck.


Keith: That was the, like, ugh, the extremely cynical moment of like, oh, hey, we're in this business meeting. My friend is sending me artwork from the wall in New York.


Austin: Oh. Yeah. Yeah.


Keith: And it was there for like eight seconds, and then it started fading, and [Austin laughs] [mumbles] “Let me tip the artist.”


Austin: That way we can keep looking at it. Yeah.


Keith: So we can keep looking at it. And it was like, such a…it's such a like head fake of what this thing is meant to be for.


Austin: And it still couldn't help but be cynical.


Keith: Right.


Austin: Like, that's the thing that's so wild about it, right? 


Keith: Yes, yeah.


Austin: And like, they could have done anything with it. They could have been like, “Here's the artist to talk about why this is important to them,” or like, “Here's someone who was, you know, that was inspired by the artist, and now they're doing a remix.” They didn't even do that shit.


Keith: It looked—


Austin: What they did was you have to pay someone to keep looking at the floating JPEG for more than eight seconds.


Keith: It didn't look…this is the wildest dreams best case scenario of people pretending to be having fun in a digital space that they could come up with. [Austin groans] And it still didn't look fun. Like, it didn't look like a good time to be in that room. 


Austin: No.


Janine: I had totally—


Keith: Even pretending that that was my friends and not like Zuckerberg.


Austin: Right.


Janine: I had totally forgotten about the last time Zuckerberg pitched VR space, and it was like him and this like lady, and they were surrounded by a horrible flood, like a horrible recent flood?


Austin: Oh my god. 


Janine: Remember? It was like a Google Streetview of like a flooded fucked up like…


Keith: I don’t really remember this.


Janine: I forget what hurricane it was. But it was like their two VR avatars in the middle of this flood zone just like laughing and high fiving and shit. It was just like…


Austin: Oh my god. I see it here.


Janine: Really fucking weird?


Keith: It was like, let's visit this flood zone?


Austin: [typing] Yeah, I'm gonna pull up this video.


Keith: I thought it was gonna go from the—


Janine: I think they pitched it as like, “You can really get a sense of the devastation. Anyway, let's hang out and talk about our VR shit.”


Jack: It was just awful.


Keith: I took the opposite.


Janine: Yeah.


Keith: I thought you were going the opposite direction, where it was like, “Hey, you've just been hit by a flood. But you've got Oculus here to make your flooded devastating landscape look like it's nice still.”


Janine: Oh, no, no, no. [laughs] No.


Austin: [laughs softly] No, that's 10 years from now. 


Keith: Right, yeah. [laughs] 


Austin: I have a news video about it, and you can just see…it's so bad.


Keith: Dude, this looks terrible.


Austin: Yeah, this is from 2017.


Janine: Oh, technology’s really come a long way since then.


Austin: “You can get the feeling that you're really in a place,” he says.


Janine: Yeah, that's the thing with it, is it feels just like so, “I don't have to face problems anymore, and this is how I experience problems.”


Austin: They’re high fiving each other. He's like, “I don't even think Rachel and I are even in the same building right now, but we can high five each other,” and in the background is Puerto Rico utterly underwater. 


Janine: Uh huh.


Austin: Jesus Christ.


Keith: This obviously takes a backseat to the cynicism and crassness of this…


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: But the fact that they cannot get these things to look better than Miis.


Austin: [laughs] It's so funny.


Keith: You can’t get— like, the Wii came out in, what, 2006. [Austin laughs] And everything that— and it’s worse. Like, the idea that this is the future of technology is everyone looks worse than like Xbox avatars. 


Austin: Yeah. Uh huh.


Janine: It also like, that double kills me, because, you know, the fact is that like everyone is acting like Second Life never happened. And the big thing you used to hear about like why people didn't like Second Life or whatever was like, “Oh, it looks so bad,” and it's like, well.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: It takes money to make it look good, and that's not any different than this shit.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: Is like, your default avatars are gonna look like shit.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: It's just, that's just… [sighs] That's just the thing it is. And like, none of this shit looks better than IMVU or whatever, like…


Austin: No.


Janine: It's so fucking frustrating.


Austin: It's a nightmare. Anyway.


Janine: Anyway.


Austin: We should do a three two one. Are we all back? It sounds like we’re all back. 


Art: Yeah.


Janine: I think so. 


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: Three, two, one, clap? 


Keith: Sure.


Janine: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Three, two, one. [they clap]


[musical transition: 0:10:35]


Ali: Okay, but it's a t shirt. 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: You think it's gith? Gath? Come on.


Ali: It’s stylized.


Art: Maybe it’s Geth.


Austin: It could be Geth.


Art: Maybe it’s a Mass Effect shirt.


Ali: Yeah, okay, yeah.


Austin: [laughing] She could be a big Mass Effect fan.


Ali: It’s good. Yeah. 


Sylvia: I can’t believe you're still spelling stuff with vowels, Art. There was a vibe shift. [Ali laughs]


Austin: God. This vibe shift’s gonna kill us all.


Ali: [sighs] I, you know?


Austin: I've been thinking about tweeting, “One must truly contemplate their place in the vibe shift,” for three days now. [Ali and Sylvia laugh] But my place in the vibe shift is to— post vibe shift is to stop tweeting, so I haven't done it.


Ali: Right. See, exactly. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Austin: I'm aware of where I am in the vibe shift. I'm free from it. 


Ali: Uh huh. Yeah.


Austin: It can't hurt me, ‘cause I got out. I anticipated it. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]


Art: Ask not for who the vibe shifts. It shifts for thee. 


Austin: [laughs] It shifts for thee. Oh no! [Ali and Sylvia laugh] It's like a deeply annoying article, because it's so caught up in like New York like scene culture. 


Ali: Mm. 


Austin: Not— not—


Sylvia: No, not— yeah.


Austin: Not scene. 


Ali: Right, but yeah.


Art: Not scene culture, but scene culture.


Austin: But I mean, actually, if you go back far enough, yes scene. But post, you know. [Sylvia laughs]


Ali: Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Austin: But I think that the heart of it—


Art: I’m already so tired. 


Austin: The heart of it is true. There is a vibe shift. I've been talking about this vibe shift for a year. 


Ali: Mm.


Austin: Like, the thing that that article does get to is: we are post woke. We are at the point now where funny people online who like four years ago were excited about like critiquing stuff for shitty reasons are now making like cancel culture jokes from an irony perspective. ‘Cause it's funny to be like, “They're going to cancel me for saying blah blah blah.”


Ali: Mm.


Austin: Like, that's a funny format to use. And so, because of that— like, not because of that, but like that's a…the wind is turning. We are getting there. I think that it's right about that core… [someone laughs softly] Like, it's not back to brunch, but it certainly is like, “I'm so exhausted about being perfectly pure, as clean as I can be, and being like super hyper aware about shit.” I think the wind is turning on that, so get ready. I don't know what the future brings, but. [Ali laughs softly]


Sylvia: I wanted stuff from the mid 2000s to come back, but not like this. [Ali laughs]


Austin: I think that’s what’s gonna happen. I think you— but I think that might be it though, right? I mean, we're already seeing some of that shit.


Sylvia: No, genuinely, yeah, I think there’s a connection.


Janine: It’s gonna be that. It's gonna be game shows that lie to people about who they're trying to date. 


Austin: Yeah. Yep.


Janine: Maybe one of those torture shows will come back.


Austin: Yep, totally. 


Janine: Yep. [Sylvia sighs]


Austin: Cruelty is king, baby.


Art: I mean, I’m surprised that Fear Factor with Joe Rogan isn’t already back.


Austin: It might be. You know, that’s a—


Sylvia: They can’t afford him. [Austin laughs]


Janine: Yeah, I was gonna— yeah, they definitely can’t. [Austin sighs]


Art: I think NBC has infinity money.


Austin: Mm… [typing]


Sylvia: Fair. 


Austin: Less than I thought they would. Oh wait, no, that's about— that's a single deal they made. That makes more sense. [Sylvia laughs]


Janine: $10. 


Austin: $10.


Janine: [laughs] Yeah, $10. 


Austin: Okay. 


Janine: God, you know what would be a good reality show? You get a bunch of like professional, like, TV production people together. You give each of them a disgustingly low budget, and then you just watch them make something with it. [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: Mm.


Janine: Kind of like the equivalent of when like you'd let a bunch of like home decor people loose like a flea market or whatever and then film it, but…or like cake people.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Janine: You just give them a bunch of like flour and squid and stuff, and you're like, “Have at it.”


Austin: Mm. Mm-hmm.


Janine: Like that, but for TV.


Jack: Like a visible clock ticking down, and at the end of that visible clock, whatever they have on tape is gonna be telecast live to a theater in Los Angeles. [Janine laughs]


Austin: Uh huh. How are we feeling? We’re ready to do this?


Janine: Yeah.


Ali: Do we have Keith?


Keith: Yeah, I'm here.


Ali: Oh, hi.


Austin: Yeah, Keith’s here. Keith’s here.


Keith: I just was— I was just trying to figure out what was going on.


Austin: Vibe shift.


Ali: Mm.


Keith: Yeah, I picked up what the vibe shift was.


Austin: Mm.


Keith: But not why the vibe shift was brought up.


Janine: Austin, when you said, “He's here,” I thought you…I thought you said, “Hey, sir,” to Keith. [laughs]


Austin: Hey, sir. [Keith laughs] Hello, sir.


Janine: [laughing] Which is like, talk about a vibe shift. [Sylvia and Art laugh]


Keith: Oh, hey. Oh, good news. I’m the boss. I’ve decided I’m gonna be the boss. [all laughing] So, everybody's gotta treat me like a boss and be really nice to me.


Austin: You want us to say sir now. Keith, let me tell you, I'm never going to call you sir.


Sylvia: Oh my god.


Keith: I don’t like it anyway. Feels weird.


Art: Wow, the vibe just shifted again! [Austin and Sylvia laugh]


[musical transition: 0:15:05]


Sylvia: So, I remembered— this is about shrimps again, just to go back to what we were talking about beforehand.


Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course. Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: Has anyone seen the pretty not good Netflix movie Project Power?


Austin: No.


Ali: Mm-mm.


Sylvia: It's this like weird superhero like kind of movie.


Austin: Mm.


Sylvia: About like a pill people take and it gives them powers. Anyway, the whole thing is just like, these are traits based off like animals that people can awaken. 


Austin: Mm.


Sylvia: And Jaime Foxx, who's the main character, his whole thing is that he's got the pistol shrimp. 


Austin: Oh, I remember the trailers for this now. What? 


Sylvia: He's got— his animal power is based on the pistol shrimp. 


Ali: Oh.


Austin: Oh.


Sylvia: Which he talks about like it punches so powerful it evaporates the air around it.


Janine: Right.


Sylvia: And you'd think that would just mean he punches really hard. Um…it means he's a nuke, basically. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Oh my god. 


Ali: Okay.


Janine: Oh.


Sylvia: I…yeah. I found a clip from it.


Austin: Thank you. 


Sylvia: Also very funny, did not realize until like, I don't know. I watched this movie, like, stoned when I was bored while Moose was out of town. [Ali laughs] So I don't remember a lot of details. Forgot the main character's name was Art. So it's just “Project Power | Art Unleashing His Power”. [Sylvia and Ali laugh] It’s really funny.


Austin: Can you please share it with the class?


Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I’m getting it. I'll just pop it in here, I guess. Here it is.


Ali: I get this though, ‘cause you think pistol shrimp, and you think, oh, you know…


Sylvia: Big punch.


Ali: Yeah, you can shoot something. There's, you…


Austin: Or like, yeah, you push air out really quick, or…


Ali: Right. You're able to create a projectile. 


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: But no, you’re the bullet. [laughs softly] 


Austin: Mm. Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: Yeah, it's weird. It’s at like 50 seconds, if you want to get to when the power starts.


Austin: Oh, no, I need the— 


Sylvia: But the context might help.


Austin: Yeah. 


Ali: [laughs] Okay. 


Austin: Is that Joseph Gordon Levitt? 


Sylvia: Yes. 


Ali: Wow.


Sylvia: Joseph Gordon Levitt is also in it. He's doing a—


Austin: What's his animal? 


Sylvia: I don't know what his animal is. He gets like…he like hardens and doesn't— like, there's a whole thing where he gets shot in the head but it just concusses him. It's like, uh, [snaps fingers] Luke Cage. That's the name I was reaching for. Except he’s a cop in New Orleans.


Janine: So his power is oobleck. He's like a non-Newtonian cornstarch-based liquid man.


Sylvia: Oh.


Austin: Oh, okay. Sure.


Ali: Wow.


Sylvia: Yeah, they really don't explain it well. It's like, people can turn on fire because cold-blooded animals can regulate their heat or some shit like that. [Ali laughs]


Janine: [skeptical] Mm-hmm?


Art: I think that's not what cold-blooded animals can do. [Ali laughs] 


Sylvia: Yeah, I know! Or maybe it was another— I don't know. I remember them showing a lizard and then showing a dude turning on fire. [laughs softly] 


Janine: Oh, right, the actual thing that pistol shrimp do is that they like open the…this is cool. [laughs softly] Okay, so it has a large claw and a small claw, right?


Sylvia: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: And the large claw— [reading] When it senses its prey nearby, it will open the top part of its big claw, allowing some water to enter a small chamber in the crook of the claw. Then, when it clamps down, the pressure from a small plunger on the top claw forces the water out of the chamber. This happens so fast that it creates bubbles, and not just any bubbles. [Ali laughs] These bubbles can speed out at 60 miles per hour, fast enough to stun or kill the prey.


Sylvia: [laughs] Holy shit.


Janine: When the bubbles pop, it makes a snap sound that gives these shrimp their name. 


Ali: [laughs] They just…


Janine: They have like a little gun. They truly are…


Sylvia: I love them. 


Janine: They just shoot with their hands. [Ali laughs] 


Sylvia: Oh, the diagram on Wikipedia. Did anyone link that?


Austin: No.


Ali: We need to just slow down for a second, ‘cause I need everybody to explain— understand and people at home to hopefully replicate for themselves the experience of listening to Janine read that [Ali and Sylvia laugh] in a very— you know, very well.


Austin: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Ali: [laughing] While in slow motion, Jaime Foxx’s body is trembling.


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: As energy is protruding from his body.


Austin: Like Goku. Like Goku’s power.


Ali: Like Goku. 


Sylvia: Uh huh.


Ali: Breaking water droplets in the air just like the bubbles of the shrimp. Like, it was all—


Austin: Yep.


Janine: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. [Sylvia laughs]


Ali: It was sequenced.


Austin: And like, you know, cinematic music is playing in the big— [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: Ah.


Austin: You know, climactic orchestra swell.


Janine: Imagine if he could just open his cla— open and close his hand and a little like air bullet would come out. [Sylvia laughs] That’s a different movie.


Austin: He does kind of do that in this sequence, though!


Sylvia: It would be—


Austin: He does…


Sylvia: Yeah.


Janine: But just like one little snap snap snap.


Austin: He does, there's a bit where he starts swipin’ and…


Ali: Oh, yeah.


Janine: Eh.


Austin: And kind of controls the explosive water. 


Sylvia: I do wish it was more of a Megaman situation, though. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Me too. Me too. I agree. 


Sylvia: Yeah, don't recommend this movie, but if you've got an hour and a half to kill, I don't know. 


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: Oh wait, hang on. I actually didn't read the best paragraph. The bubbles are loud. Like, really loud. The snap of one recently discovered species of pistol shrimp called Synalpheus pinkfloydy, or pinkfloydi. Named after something else that is also very loud and cool, Pink Floyd. [Ali and Janine laugh] 


Austin: Mm…


Janine: Can reach 210 decibels. That is louder than an actual gunshot, which is around 140 to 175 decibels. You can hear them for yourself by sticking your head below the water on a reef and listening for the snap snap snap.


Sylvia: Oh, wow. Yeah, apparently when they're in colonies they can fuck with sonar communication, ‘cause they're so loud.


Jack: Oh, wow.


Austin: Wow. That rules.


Janine: That's amazing.


Sylvia: Yeah. “The shrimp are a major source of noise in the ocean.”


Janine: This is a Bluff City superhero.


Ali: Mm.


Jack: We’re back on shrimp again? 


Sylvia: Yeah, I brought up shrimp.


Ali: Yep. [laughs] 


Sylvia: I’m sorry. [Janine laughs]


Austin: Oh, yeah. You have no idea.


Sylvia: It had been bubbling in the back of my head for like two and a half hours. [Jack laughs] I had to bring up some shrimp stuff. It's fine.


Austin: Bubbling like the bubbles of the pistol shrimp.


Ali: Mm.


Sylvia: Like the bubbles of the pistol shrimp slash Jaime Foxx, yeah.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah. Gotcha. Are we all— is Dre back? No.


Ali: I think we're missing Dre and Keith, still? 


Austin: Okay. Oh, I love this diagram.


Sylvia: It's really good. [laughs] Genuinely, I really like it, ‘cause it also looks like a toucan beak. 


Ali: Oh.


Austin: Oh, it does look like a— yeah, uh huh.


Sylvia: What if a bird did that?


Austin: Wow, it literally— it charges the— it has the water. It like stores the water in there.


Sylvia: Yeah!


Austin: It has one in the clip, you know, or one in the chamber, ready to go.


Jack: Can it hurt humans?


Sylvia: I believe so, yeah.


Janine: Probably not.


Dre: I’m back.


Austin: [chuckles] We have different answers. 


Jack: Hi, Dre.


Austin: Welcome back.


Ali: Hi.


Jack: We're back on shrimp talk.


Janine: This feels like one of those scale things. 


Sylvia: No, they can't, actually. Yeah, okay. 


Keith: Hello. 


Austin: Oh, and it—


Jack: Hi, Keith.


Janine: It feels like one of those things where like, ants are the strongest thing, ‘cause they can carry a bajillion times their body weight. But it's like, well, it can't carry a person. 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Jack: I mean, they can absolutely kill a person, though. 


Janine: 'Cause it’s a million bajillion times its body weight.


Austin: Wait. The snap can produce sonoluminescence from the collapsing cavitation bubbles. As it collapses, the cavitation bubble reaches temperatures of over 5000 Kelvin.


Ali: Mm?


Austin: In comparison, the surface temperature of the Sun is estimated to be around 5700 Kelvin.


Sylvia: Yes. I believe there is a dramatic moment where Jaime Foxx tells this to someone in Project Power.


Austin: Of course. Yeah, okay.


Janine: Yeah, this was the thing. This was the thing that I…I didn't realize the shooting the water part. My memory had only been like they superheat the water somehow, and I was like, oh, well this Jaime Foxx thing actually makes a kind of sense to me then. [Ali laughs]


Janine: It makes less sense now. It makes less sense to me now.


Austin: They hunt with it. 


Dre: God.


Janine: Yeah. They just roll up on people and fucking shoot ‘em. 


Keith: Ants do?


Austin: Fuck. 


Sylvia: Pistol shrimp.


Keith: Oh, pistol shrimp. Oh, yeah, pistol shrimp are wild. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then there's, uh, there's the other dangerous kind of shrimp, the boxing ones?


Austin: [intrigued] Mm.


Keith: It's really difficult to keep them in captivity, because they will just break through aquarium glass when they punch it.


Jack: Ha! Oh, wow.


Austin: Wow. [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: I might be getting those mixed up with pistol shrimp, even.


Keith: So, yeah, pistol shrimp shoot like an air jet, but the boxer shrimp just have like super shelled arms that they jab. They're also beautiful. Here's a picture of one. 


Sylvia: It’s a mantis shrimp?


Keith: Mantis shrimp.


Austin: Oh, these are mantis shrimp?


Keith: Yeah, mantis shrimp.


Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. They're really pretty. They do look like mantises, too. 


Keith: Yeah, they do.


Austin: They do look like mantids.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Like, a lot.


Ali: Wow.


Austin: Hell yeah.


Keith: [slowly, while typing] How hard do mantis shrimps punch? [Austin laughs softly] Uh, 1500 Newtons in force. It is more acceleration than a 22 caliber bullet.


Austin: [softly] Jesus.


Sylvia: I think maybe I was getting pistol shrimps and mantis shrimps mixed up, ‘cause that whole time watching that movie, I was like, “When’s Jaime Foxx gonna punch really hard?” [Keith, Ali, and Austin laugh]


Austin: I mean, they do basically the same thing in terms of creating cavitation bubbles that are hot. 


Sylvia: For sure. 


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: And have biolumin— or sonoluminescence or whatever.


Keith: The clubs—


Austin: God, some of them have spears, and some of them have smashers.


Keith: Yeah. 


Sylvia: Shrimp are scary.


Keith: Yeah, they are. 


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: [reading] The clubs of the shrimp are spring loaded, similar to a crossbow. 


Dre: Jesus.


Keith: When they release their club, it accelerates over 50 miles per hour with a force of 330 pounds, up to 250— sorry, up to 2500 times the shrimp’s own weight. 


Austin: That rules.


Keith: If a person could hit that hard, they could break steel. Yeah. 


Austin: Hell yeah.


Jack: I can hit that hard.


Keith: Oh, awesome. 


Sylvia: Oh, yeah. True. 


Austin: Nice, nice, nice. 


Keith: Yeah, I forgot that Jack was a world champion puncher.


Austin: Forgot that Jack was a big pist— a big, uh…


Dre: A big shrimp. 


Sylvia: Mantis shrimp? 


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Mantis shrimp. Yeah.


Jack: [laughs softly] Just a huge mantis shrimp.


Austin: Yeah. All right. 


Dre: Jack “Big Shrimpy” de Quidt.


Austin: We are now all back?


Jack: No. 


Austin: Art. Is Art?


Dre: Art’s going (??? 24:31) [laughs] 


Sylvia: [laughs] I believe we aren’t all back. 


Austin: Mm-mm. We’re not doing that.


[Sangfielle-themed end music plays]