Clapcast 59: Gotta Keep Reading
Transcriber: robotchangeling


Austin: Welcome to session nine. Session six…six, and I've written five, haven't I? I've written five. It’s session six. [laughs quietly] 


Sylvia: Is it really?


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: Maybe it's session five. Maybe it's five.


Sylvia: Okay. 


Austin: Let me double check.


Jack: I think it might be six.


Austin: I think it’s six.


Sylvia: Episode four came out today, so I thought we were on five. Oh my God.


Austin: Okay, let me see. You might be right. You're right. This is five. This is five.


Ali: Yeah. Okay.


Austin: Yeah. I've just been…my brain. My brain?


Ali: Ah.


Jack: Right, right, right. Right.


Austin: My brain doesn't work today.


Jack: Oh, I have bad news, Austin.


Austin: What? What's up?


Jack: We're gonna need to use that ol’ brain!


Austin: We gotta do something? What do we gotta do?


Jack: Oh dear.


Keith: It's not looking good. [Ali laughs] 


Austin: It’s not looking good!


Jack: How would you like to explore the American Girl doll catalog? which is what Janine and KB and I ended up doing yesterday. [laughs quietly] 


Austin: Yes, I saw that. 


Sylvia: Oh my God.


Austin: I have that saved to watch as I pack the rest of this week.


Jack: I did not know what American Girl dolls were. 


Austin: Ah, I see.


Keith: Oh, wow.


Jack: And it was a…KB saved the “they are characters from history” until the very last moment, and let me tell you, [Austin: “Oh”] it was a great final act twist to realize that, like…


Austin: That’s fun. [Ali laughs] 


Jack: This is the Great Depression doll?


Austin: Yeah.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Wait, so you saw them all before knowing that? Or are you saying that that was a reveal before you–


Jack: No, no, no.


Austin: I see, I see, I see.


Jack: Before we even went on the website. 


Austin: I thought perhaps you'd seen them all, and then at the end, KB was like, “And they're from history.”


Jack: And… [Austin and Jack laugh quietly]


Sylvia: I have like a very distinct memory of one of the like first times I visited New York with my family, my aunt looking everywhere in the city to get a specific American Girl doll for my cousin and being super stressed out about it the entire fucking time. 


Austin: Wow.


Ali: Wow.


Sylvia: It was very weird.


Austin: That feels like a classic– like, anytime American Girl doll has been in my life in the periphery or in the focus–


Jack: It involves stress?


Austin: It's involved stress and someone being like, “I gotta get the one.”


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: “I'm looking for the one. I don't care about the other ones. I care about the one.” And…


Jack: I’m here to get Molly. 


Austin: Right. Exactly. 


Jack: Or I’m here to get Stephanie. 


Austin: Exactly. 


Jack: [laughs quietly] I don't know if Stephanie is one. I think she might be. 


Austin: I bet she is.


Sylvia: Law of averages. Like, yeah.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Yeah, come on. There's gotta be a Stephanie. Yeah, there's a Stephanie. I found it.


Sylvia: By the way, can I just say our new icon on the Twitter really reminds me [Jack: “It’s so good”] of the cover for the new My Chemical Romance single, and it makes me very happy. 


Ali: Oh! [Austin laughs quietly] 


Jack: What’s the single called?


Keith: The purpley one? 


Sylvia: Yeah, for “Foundations of Decay”. 


Austin: I see it. 


Sylvia: You know?


Austin: I see it.


Sylvia: I genuinely was like, “Who changed our icon to do that?” [laughter] 


Austin: That’s very funny. That’s very funny. Uh, time.is. 


Sylvia: Okay.


Jack: Let’s do it. 


Austin: 35? 


[clap]


[PALISADE transition: 0:03:00] 


Austin: “Time sometimes flies like a bird, sometimes crawls like a snail, but a man is happiest when he does not even notice whether it passes swiftly or softly.” Ivan Turgenev.


Austin: Wow.


Jack: Is softly the opposite of swiftly?


Austin: Swiftly or softly. Huh. I guess so. In the sense that if it's swift, it’s like: boom!


Jack: There's a metaphorical opposite happening here that I quite like.


Austin: Yeah. Right, because swiftly…the thing that's happening here is emotionally we say, “Time flies when you're having fun.” In other words, we think about swift time as being the moment of pleasure, because it's like, “Oh, I was just really enjoying myself, and time just flew by.” But softness, the idea that you might lose yourself in a mode indefinitely, and in fact, linger in it softly is actually really nice.


Jack: Yeah. One of those words is describing motion [Austin: “Right”] in a way that the other one is not.


Austin: Is just not. 


Jack: But they're being presented as though they both are.


Austin: Well, it gives a different character to swiftness that I don't think it normally– it gives hardness to swiftness.


Jack: Who the hell is Ivan Turgenev? 


Austin: He’s a Russian novelist, I think. I don't know what he wrote.


Art: Oh, Austin, you're not coming through on the stream.


Austin: Oh, that’s a shame. That's a shame. Now I am. Thanks.


Art: Well, you missed a lot of fun meditations on time.


Austin: Yeah. You'll get it in a Clapcast.


Jack: He wrote a bunch of books that I have never heard of. He wrote Rudin, Home of the Gentry, On the Eve, Fathers and Sons, Smoke, Torrents of Spring, and Virgin Soil in 1877.


Austin: There you go.


Art: That's like almost meaningless, though, right? Because you haven't heard of most books.


Austin: That’s true.


Jack: I think I've heard of 80% of the books.


Austin: Mm…uh oh, Jack. I hate to tell you, but I have to explain to you that you've never been wronger than this moment. [Jack laughs] This is the most wrong you've been by part.


Jack: Okay. Okay, I’m prepared to make a revised thing.


Austin: Okay.


Jack: I think I've read about 60% of the books.


Austin: Okay. Well, I–


Jack: I think I’ve heard of about 60%.


Austin: I really appreciate that you're trying to meet me in the middle, [laughter] but the middle of where you're at and where I'm at is much– I guess it's probably like 40, right? It's actually 40. 


Art: Yeah.


Austin: That's the middle between zero and… [laughs quietly] 


Jack: Do you think you have read 0.005% of the books?


Austin: Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Yeah. 


Art: Oh, yeah.


Jack: Do you think you've read 0.5% of the books?


Austin: How many books are there just in the Library of Congress?


Jack: So, already a very flawed sample.


Austin: 2.9 million books, Jack. [Jack laughs]


Jack: Okay. Okay. I’ve read about 60% of them. [all laugh]


Art: And that's not counting like Amazon originals, right? Like, those little…


Austin: Are those in the Library of Congress?


Art: That anyone can just put a book on…


Jack: Hell, like Wattpad. 


Austin: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Exactly. It counts everything. Yeah, Wattpad stories. 100% that counts that. Let's imagine I've read 3,000 books.


Jack: Do you think– I think that's a big number. I don't know. I don't know how much you read.


Austin: I think it's a big number, but it's potentially…I'm being very aggressive.


Jack: In your whole life, yeah.


Austin: In my whole life. 


Art: Yeah.


Austin: You know, I'm a grown man.


Art: Right.


Austin: I think it's too aggressive. I think…you want to revise it down to– here's the thing. 3,000’s great.


Art: What counts as a– everything counts as a book? Everything–


Jack: No, Art. [laughs quietly] 


Art: But like, Cat in the Hat is a book?


Austin: Yeah. Cat in the Hat is a book.


Jack: Yes, that’s…yeah. Mm-hmm.


Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. News articles aren't books. Newspapers aren't books. 


Art: Right.


Austin: Individual poems aren't books, but books of poetry, including chapbooks, are books. I don't know why I'm drawing this particular line, but like, you know, I think individual short fiction pieces are not books, but collected short stories are books.


Jack: “Is Friends at the Table a book?” says someone in chat. No.


Austin: No.


Jack: It’s a podcast.


Austin: It’s a text, but it's not a book. It's a podcast. We don't need to…


Art: But like, an ebook is a book.


Austin: An ebook is a book. Yeah.


Jack: Yeah, an ebook is absolutely a book. An audiobook is a book. 


Austin: Yes. 100%. So–


Art: Well, most things aren’t straight to audiobook.


Jack: Mm, no. No.


Austin: Not most things, but some things are.


Jack: What I mean to say is–


Austin: I don't think a podcast is a book, but I get where it gets blurry there, right? Is a 10 episode podcast series that's a history of something a book? 


Jack: No.


Austin: No. But if you printed it…


Art: I'm listening to an audiobook right now with Jess. 


Austin: Yeah. 


Art: And it's like a 10 year old book. 


Austin: Uh huh.


Art: And so the audiobook exists before [Austin: “The boom”] the concept of podcast voice.


Austin: Yeah, sure. 


Jack: Oh, wow. That’s really interesting.


Art: And so like the narration– it's like this guy talking about the history of tomato cultivation. 


Austin: Mm.


Art: But with this, like, [exuberant voice] “Tomatoes are…”


Austin: “Tomatoes are…” Yeah, a hundred percent. Yeah, yeah, yeah. [Jack laughs] I know old audiobook voice.


Art: Calm down.


Austin: Yeah, bring it down a little bit. It's okay. 


Art: It’s tomatoes.


Austin: Anyway, let's say I'd read 3,000 books, which is, you’re right, it's probably too aggressive. It's probably more like 1,000.


Art: Well, you're a…you went to grad school.


Jack: 3,000 is a huge number, though, is the thing.


Austin: 3,000 is a huge number, but it is– you're right, I did go to grad school, and they made me read just so many fucking books. As both of you know, as you have partners who've done the grad school thing, it's…you just gotta keep reading.


Jack: It doesn’t seem pleasant. 


Austin: It's…you know, I miss it in many ways. In any case–


Art: But do you miss the grad school, or do you just miss the grad school?


Austin: There are bits of it all that I miss.


Art: Sure.


Jack: The parties.


Austin: Uh…yeah, sure. Parts of my grad school experience had parties, and those were good. That was the CalArts part of my grad school. The frozen norths of Ontario did not have many parties in them for me. It had a few, but that was mostly “I don't have any money; does this party have pizza?” and I would go, and it would, and I would eat food that week, which was nice. Not that week, that day. I always found a way to eat food, you know? It was touch and go for a minute there, but…grad school is very expensive, and also you don't make any money while you're doing it, so. Anyway, my point is if–


Art: Especially expensive if you do it abroad.


Austin: Yeah. If I had read 3,000 books, that would be just over 1% of the books inside of the library, just the Library of Congress. So. 


Art: No, that's not right, is it? ‘Cause you said 2 million.


Austin: No, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. You're right. 


Art: That’s 0.1%. 


Austin: It would be 0.1%. Yeah, uh huh. Yeah, exactly. So it's nothing. 0.1%. Anyway, there's a lot of books out there, huh?


Art: Yeah, and that's that's only…the Library of Congress is primarily English language books, right?


Austin: Yeah. Yeah. 


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: Uh…I guess. I guess I don't know that for sure. I wouldn't go to print with that. I wouldn't write a book, and in the book, say, “As we all know, the Library of Congress is primarily English books.” Maybe primarily.


Art: Oh, I don't care. Let the Library of Congress sue me. I don't think they even have someone in charge of that. 


Austin: Pfft. Sure. Sure. 


Art: The Library of Congress libel department? I don’t think…


Austin: A journal is, of course, a book. Not a journal in the academic sense, but person's journal? That's a book.


Art: When does a comic book become a book?


Jack: Immediately.


Austin: Mm, no, because a floppy…


Art: One comic book? Like, a floppy is not, yeah.


Austin: A single floppy isn't a book, right?


Jack: If The Cat in the Hat is a book.


Austin: Yeah, fair.


Art: Then like Spider-Man 18 is a book? 


Jack: Yes, I think so. 


Austin: Interesting.


Jack: I would be prepared to make that distinction.


Art: Well, then my number’s getting up there.


Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now 3,000 sounds doable.


Art: Yeah, now 3,000 sounds possible.


Austin: Hmm. “Does the Principality have more books than the Mirage?” Now, that's a great…


Jack: No, says my gut. 


Austin: I don't know. 


Jack: Oh, it’s bigger. It’s much bigger.


Austin: It's way bigger! It doesn't have the technological level of like…the thing is: the Twilight Mirage has the tower of– or not the tower, the Library of Babel in it, right? So like, it has all of the books that could ever be, is the problem, right?


Jack: I mean, we have that now, though. We have…


Austin: We do. This is true. We do have it now. 


Jack: It’s just very hard to search through.


Austin: Yeah, yeah. 


Jack: What does he call that library, Borges?


Austin: The Library of Babel. 


Art: Yeah.


Jack: Oh, right. Yes. 


Austin: Yeah, mm-hmm. So, that is…but I think in terms of physical goods, the Principality has more physical goods. But okay, here's a question: have you read two books if you read the same book twice? Corollary: have you read two books if you read the same book twice and it's two physically different books?


Jack: Okay. I'm prepared to make a very small death on a hill. Yes. 


Austin: To both of those?


Jack: Yes. 


Art: Wow. 


Jack: Uh, no. More to the former. I think you can read a book very differently at different stages in your life such that you might, for whatever reason, want to count it as having read two books. 


Austin: Right.


Jack: I think if I read the the hardcover of one and the softcover of another three months later…


Austin: Right. So if I read The Cat in the Hat 2.9 million times, I could rightly say, “I've read as many books as there are in the US Library of Congress.”


Jack: Well, maybe with a year apart.


Austin: So if I live to be 2.9 million years old, I got it.


Jack: I would say that you would have a very interesting viewpoint of literature by the end of those 3 million years.


Austin: 2.9, please. Let's not overestimate.


Jack: Sorry, yeah, 2.9.


Art: I think if you live 2.9 million years, you could say whatever you want, but also, there’ll probably more books in the library of Congress by then.


Austin: Or way less. 


Art: Well, yeah. Actually, yeah, 2 million years.


Austin: The way we’re going?


Jack: It’s gonna go either way.


Art: Zero. Zero books.


Austin: [typing] How long until the sun…


Jack: This is a real version of the “World War III will be fought with whatever [Austin: “Uh huh”] and World War IV will be fought with sticks,” but for books.


Austin: Now, I do think the United States will be gone within 2.9 million years and the Library of Congress with it and all records pertaining thereof. But I do think, apparently, the earth will still be here, probably, so.


Jack: Oh, sick. 


Austin: Yeah.


Art: Shoutout to Earth.


Jack: With some kind of cool bug on it or something.


Austin: Yeah, we're just a fucking drop in the pool of time, let me tell you. Ain’t nothing happening.


Jack: It’s quite comforting. 


Austin: Yeah. Is it? I guess, yeah. Yeah. Depends on my mood.


Jack: [laughs quietly] Yeah. Sure. 


Art: Comforting slash not comforting.


Jack: But those last books are going to be great.


Austin: I don't know if they're going to make it into the Library of Congress, though. I feel like there'll be other things on the mind of the people who run that thing by the time the last books are printed.


Jack: I’m Jonathan Nolan, and my new project is about a character desperately running the last books to the Library of Congress. 


Austin: [laughs] All right, we need to do a clap. I think this was a good warm up. We did it. Shout outs to Ivan Turgenev for inspiring a very thoughtful pre-stream conversation.


Jack: I don't know if it was thoughtful. You pitched reading The Cat in the Hat 2.9 million times. [laughs] 


Austin: I had so many thoughts. If you don't think that was full thoughts, I don't know what to tell you. [laughs quietly] All right. Five after? Five seconds after?


Jack: Mm-hmm. 


[clap]


Austin: Sounded great to me, which means I was probably late.


Art: I thought someone clapped before I clapped. Like, I heard a clap while I was clapping.


Austin: Okay. Well, we're covering a large period of time and space, right? 


Jack: Mm-hmm.


Austin: You know.


Art: Mm. 


Austin: Riley Rethal says, “‘If you live 2.9 million years, you can say whatever you want,’ –the guy playing a divine.” Now, listen. I know I make up a lot of shit about time. No divine has lived for 2.9 million years yet. We're like not even at a million years on this timeline yet.


Jack: No. 150- 100,000 years ish.


Austin: Okay, it's more than that, Jack, but it's fine. 


Jack: No.


Austin: Because 100,000 years– yeah, it is, because…


Jack: Oh, you’re right, yeah. Yes, right.


Austin: Because 100– if you go back to Chital, yes.


Jack: I was counting from…


Austin: If you go from COUNTER/Weight, we’re sub 100,000. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We're like 56– 55,000, something like that, right? But from…


Jack: How long have– okay, this is my last digression. How long have humans been on the earth?


Art: Well, that's one of those ones that’s like trickier than you think, because like, recorded human history goes back so far, and then humans were there for like another million years.


Jack: About 300,000 years is what they say.


Austin: Sure. But recorded– the thing that we call recorded history, we only talk about 6,000, right?


Jack: 50-65,000 years?


Austin: Yeah, yeah, sure. No, no, no. This what I'm saying. People talk about recorded history as being 6,000 years ago, which is bullshit, because like we absolutely have tools and drawings and stuff from what you just said, 50,000 years ago. But I've definitely heard people talk about recorded history, and what they're doing is prizing a certain, you know, mode of record, right? 


Jack: Yes. Yes.


Austin: So, I don't know. If I drew a fucking cave painting, you know, 20,000 years ago, of like me getting chased by a big horse, that's history to me.


Jack: That's a book to me.


Austin: That's a book– now, that is a book to me.


Jack: That is not a book. 


Austin: Anyway.


Art: Horses are weird.


Austin: Horses are weird. It's true.


Art: Like, do you ever think about how big horses are?


Austin: I try not to. [laughs quietly] ‘Cause of how they terrify me.


Art: And they're very strong and fast! How did we beat the horse?


Jack: Fire, probably. I think fire.


Austin: Yeah, mostly fire. Tools.


Art: Mostly fire? All right. 


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. Puzzles.


[transition: 0:16:30]


Jack: Did you play Death's Door?


Austin: I played some of it. I played a few hours, I want to say? I didn’t…


Jack: Do you have strong feelings about it?


Austin: It didn't really work for me. Let me see, how much did I play? Maybe I played less than I thought. I played two and a half hours. I found I didn't like anything that wasn't a boss fight very much. I found like, I’m constantly just like…


Jack: Oh, interesting.


Austin: Because I didn't feel like there were any real ideas that I hadn't felt…not ideas I hadn't seen anywhere else. That's not right. I felt like I was seeing really interesting design language. It felt like– this is weird. It felt like the levels were adequate prose and the bosses were interesting poetry.


Jack: Ha! Sure.


Austin: I wasn't seeing a lot of flourish in the levels and felt like, “Mm, okay.”


Jack: Fair enough. 


Austin: Are you enjoying it? Are you are playing it now?


Jack: I haven’t started playing it. No, it's something that I have, and I always thought…


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Jack: Should I…?


Austin: People really like it. You know, I get it.


Jack: Should I go back to it, yeah. 


Austin: Right. 


Jack: I like a good Zelda-like game.


Austin: Yeah, that’s…


Jack: But I think that Nintendo probably make them best.


Austin: They do a good job, certainly. They certainly do.


Jack: I don't know that I've played a game that's been like, “We're inspired by Zelda,” that I’ve thought, [Austin: “Mm-hmm”] “That's better than Link's Awakening,” or something.


Austin: [laughs quietly] Yeah. It's a hard one to do, you know?


Jack: Oh, God. I don't know if you've had a chance to play Dying Light 2.


Austin: Not yet, no.


Jack: It is very disappointing.


Austin: That's what I've heard. I've read some reviews and none of them felt especially…


Jack: It feels like…remember when they made Assassin's Creed I, and then they made Assassin's Creed II, and you felt that leap of confidence and tone?


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: I like Assassin's Creed I a lot.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: But between I and II, it felt like, “Oh, hang on. I think they've worked out what the game they wanted to make was.”


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Jack: This feels like the inverse of that, where it feels like momentum has just been pulled out of the game [Austin: “Yeah”] and tone, and it feels like playing Far Cry. 


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Which is a shame.


Austin: That's such a shame. That's such a shame.


Jack: I mean, we’ll always have the first one, but…


Austin: I saw Chris Plante describe it as a seven out of ten game today, and I was like, “That's not what we mean when we say we like a seven out of ten game.”


Jack: No.


Austin: That's not what we mean. We mean something much different than like, that it tastes like paste, you know?


Jack: The Saboteur is a very good seven out of ten game.


Austin: Yeah, a hundred percent. A hundred percent. Exactly.


Jack: Oh, what's the other one that– oh, ELEX.


Austin: ELEX is a 7 out of 10 game, 100 percent.


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: A game that I think has a lot in common with Pokémon: Arceus.


Jack: Oh, really? I haven't got back to ELEX in ages. I should do, because there's that new one coming out, and I think that that studio will make…


Austin: Yeah. I’m curious about it. 


Jack: I think that studio will make enjoyably broken bullshit pretty consistently.


Austin: Yes. Yes. Yeah. When I say that there's some comparison there, it's that like, it really gets by on there just being a lot of it and like letting you do kind of weird things for the genre space. You know, you don't have a backpack– or, sorry, you don't have a jet pack in Pokémon: Arceus, but you do very quickly get a big– I’m gonna spoil an Arceus thing. 


Jack: Yeah, no, go for it.


Austin: A big bear that can smell treasure all over the place, [Jack laughs] and like, you follow a ping system to go dig up, you know, Pokémon chestnuts or whatever. And like, that, to me, is ELEX, you know? [laughs quietly] 


Jack: Yeah. Also, the other thing about ELEX is that I played it before they patched it, and that game was difficult in a way that was…


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: It was not enjoyable. 


Austin: No.


Jack: And it wasn't like I could overcome it, because the ways in which it was difficult were so hard. 


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: So I sort of had to plan around it, and it felt like I was constantly having tricks played on me by the game.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Jack: Who was just like, “Ah, this guy has a gun. You can't do anything about that, can you?”


Austin: Mm-hmm. Yeah.


Jack: But yeah, I played more. I have to say “Arkeus,” because otherwise it sounds like I'm saying arse.


Austin: Oh, sure. I don't know what it is. It might be.


Art: Great reason.


Austin: It might be “Arkeus.” I've always said “Arseus,” but I don't know why.


Jack: That sounds like you're being a bit arsey.


Austin: I guess we could–


Art: Well, there must be kind of katakana, right?


Austin: That’s what I was gonna say. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. Exactly.


Jack: Anyway, I played more of it today. I’ve barely played any. I played it on the day it came out and liked it and then was stuck doing other things like applying for criminal records and things. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Jack: But I played a bit of it today, and I was like, “Oh, this game is great. I actually like this game a lot.”


Austin: Apparently, it's “Arkeus” in English and “Arseus” in Japan. 


Jack: Hmm.


Austin: It's annoying to me.


Art: Well, I don't find that satisfying at all.


Austin: No, me either. All right. We're ready to come back?


Jack: Let's do it.


[transition: 0:21:48]


 
Dre: Ha bah bah bah bah bah bah.


Austin: Love that. 


Keith: Ha bah bah bah bah bah bah? 


Dre: I'm the dog with great wisdom. Ha bah bah bah bah bah. 


Austin: Is that what dogs sound like? Do I not know this? 


Dre: God, have you not seen that internet video, Austin?


Austin: No.


Keith: I also don't know what that is. 


Dre: Ha bah bah ha bah. Hold on. Now I gotta find it.


Austin: Excited.


Dre: [typing] I am the dog. Is that gonna find– yeah, dog of wisdom. Here we go. I mean, you know, you can wait until we’re live for this if you want to.


Austin: We are live now.


Ali: Wow.


Dre: Hell yeah.


Keith: Hello. 


Austin: I mean, no one's gonna be here yet. It's gonna take a second. 


Dre: Yeah, no, this is just for the real ones. 


Austin: [typing] With our second Road to PALISADE game.


Keith: Oh, I have seen this. I take it back.


Austin: Stealing the Throne by @ickbat. 


Ali: Oh, sure. 


Dre: [laughs] Ah, sure, yes. The dog.


Keith: People really out there just having ideas.


Ali: Mm.


Dre: I mean, you know, this is from the young internet.


Keith: It says 2015. That feels about like when I saw this. 


Dre: Really?


Keith: I guess it could be a reupload, and I saw it earlier.


Dre: Yeah. Let me…let's go to the old Know Your Meme.


Keith: It definitely looks and feels like it could be something from like 2008?


Dre: Oh, no, it's 2015.


Ali: Oh.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: Oh, I’ve never seen this.


Dre: Yeah, no, I definitely for some reason assumed this was like eBaum’s World or something. [Ali laughs quietly]


Austin: [unimpressed] Yeah, sure, okay. It’s a dog. [Ali and Keith laugh]


Ali: Yep.


Dre: Wow. Austin really no selling this dog, huh?


Austin: Eh, yeah. I thought it would be a real dog, Dre. 


Dre: Ah, okay.


Austin: You got me excited for a real dog, and then we just got the ehhh. I mean, this is fine.


Keith: Yeah, I also thought it was a real dog, but then I saw the plane, and I was like, “Oh, I remember the dog in the plane. Yeah, yeah, yeah.”


Dre: [quietly] Ah, well, guess I’ll…


Austin: Cyan Juniper Orton(???) in the chat says, “We doing Dog of Wisdom, huh?” 


Dre: Guess I’ll go, huh?


Keith: I can't help, though, but feeling–


Dre: I’ll go. I’ll see you later.


Austin: No, look, the chat’s on your side, Dre. [Dre laughs] Chat. ??? says “Ha ba da ba da ba ba,” so I think that that's what you said.


Keith: I’m on Dre’s side. I'm on Dre’s side until I'm like, “This has 70 million views?”


Austin: Uh huh.


Keith: And I'm like, “Eh, my videos are better than this.” [quiet laughter] 


Dre: I’ll agree with you there. I agree with you a hundred percent there. 


Austin: I like that you didn't– you can't even–


Dre: Do we have a link for the tweet?


Austin: Yeah, yeah, I’ll send it in a second. You can't even…


Dre: Okay.


Austin: You couldn't even go with “as good as this.” You had to go with “better than this.”


Keith: No, it's better. Run Button is better than “Dog of Wisdom.” I would say less than 1% of Run Button is worse than “Dog of Wisdom”.


Austin: Uh huh.


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Keith: And that's no offense to “Dog of Wisdom.” I think Run Button is really good.


Austin: [types] Saying I have to update the title. 


Dre: Oh, okay. 


Austin: Got it. I got it, Thomas. 


Dre: There's a synergy there of it being “HOUNDS 2” on “Dog of Wisdom.”


Austin: That's true. That's true. No one's feuding with the dog. I just thought it would be a real dog, so I got my hopes up.


Keith: I'll feud with the dog.


Austin: Keith is feuding with the real dog.


Keith: Fuck this dumbass dog in this 70 million views. [Dre laughs] 


Austin: Keith.


Keith: Do you know how annoying it is to make Run Button?


Austin: I was gonna say– I mean, I guess.


Keith: Super annoying. [Dre laughs quietly]


Ali: You know how easy it is to watch a video that's a minute long?


Austin: Yeah, true. Yeah, that's the thing, Keith.


Dre: Yeah.


Ali: Nothing against you, but…


Austin: Do you have a single video on Run Button that's 90 seconds? Because you don't. [Ali laughs quietly]


Keith: No. 


Austin: And that's a different– you're in a different weight category. You know what I mean? 


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: You're in the heavyweight division. 


Ali: You can’t– yeah.


Austin: You're not– of course you would beat this dog in a fight.


Keith: Yeah, I think our shortest video is…okay, so this doesn't count. We do have under 90 second videos that are like, “Hey, you should watch our 24 hours straight live stream.” [Ali laughs]


Austin: Yeah. They’re not as good as “Dog of Wisdom,” though. [Ali laughs]


Keith: That is part of the 1% that is not as good, yeah.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Keith: I'm accounting for that. 


Ali: Uh huh. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Keith: Closest thing I think is that you've got my Breath of the Wild skate video that's like five minutes long.


Austin: Okay, that’s pretty good. 


Ali: Oh, yes. Yes, yeah.


Austin: That’s pretty good. Yeah, that's a fun video.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: But even that's long compared to…


Keith: Yeah, it's like five minutes.


Austin: Yeah. So, I feel like that's like, you know. Wow, I searched for “Run Button Breath of the Wild skate,” and it didn't come up. 


Dre: Oh.


Austin: I got other people’s skate video.


Keith: Oh, 'cause it's called “Video Game Days” is the title of it.


Austin: Okay, well, Keith, we’re running into the issues here. [Austin and Ali laugh]


Dre: Yeah.


Keith: Yeah, but it's a really good reference [Austin: “Uh huh,” Ali: “Mm-hmm”] to the fucking Jason Lee skate video called “Video Days.”


Austin: Yeah. Yeah, I gotchu. I just, it's…I'm now searching the exact title, and it’s not…


Dre: Gotta work on that SEO, man. 


Austin: It's wild that this isn't coming up, so.


Keith: Um…yeah, I don't–


Austin: I got it.


Keith: Actually, I'm logged in as Run Button, and I still can't get it to show up.


Austin: Also, Keith, I thought so. It’s 11 minutes long. [Dre laughs] It's 10:47. 


Keith: Okay.


Austin: It's too long. I've always thought this about this. It's a great video. I've watched this whole video multiple times, but it's a four minute video that you put at 10 minutes. [Ali laughs] 


Ali: [whispering] Wow.


Keith: I had a lot of footage of me doing that. 


Austin: I know, but you don't use all the footage. They had a lot of footage of this wise dog, probably. [Ali laughs] 


Keith: Yeah, I could have done– I could have cut that down to four minutes.


Austin: This is the– and listen, I've been here. When I went to Vice, and they were like, [Ali: “Yeah”] “You have to make 90 second videos,” I was like, “Fuck you. We have to make 90 minute videos,” and they refused to let me do that and made me make three minute videos instead. And in retrospect, I should have made 90 second videos, because those are the videos that do 70 million views. 


Dre: Mm.


Austin: It sucks. 


Keith: Okay. But then the flip side–


Dre: So, when’s the Run Button TikTok start? is what I want to know.


Keith: I have been actively considering doing that for, I don't know, eight months. 


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: But I don't know that I…I mean, I'm sure that I could find 90 seconds of funny stuff that works.


Austin: Of course. You're a comedian. Of course you could. 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Dre: Yeah.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: We're gonna do time.is. Let's do a clap. 


Keith: Okay, let's do it.


Austin: It’s the end of the week. We’ve all had long weeks. Let's steal a fucking mech.


Keith: I don't need 70 million. I just would like 50,000.


Ali: Yeah.


Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Austin: That skate video’s almost there.


Keith: You're right, but it took years.


Austin: Yeah, it’s at 39,000.


Keith: It’s been four years, and it’s 40,000. I would like all of our videos to have 50,000 views.


Austin: Sure. That would be great. That would be fantastic. Like, I…


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: But like– this is just a comparison. You've been running for longer than this. But with all of the media money of Vice Media, Waypoint’s videos have 2,900 views, 3,900 views. So it's like, it's just–


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: If you make a certain type of thing, you're not– it sucks. Like, the model for success inside of the game streaming and YouTube field is just a nightmare. So, anyway.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: We should do it. We should do a clap. 15 seconds. That's too long. 13 seconds. [clap] A little early from somebody, but that's okay. It’s probably okay, right?


[PALISADE end music]