Clapcast 75: Winnie the Pooh
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Jack: Favorite zoo find: Andean bears.
Austin: Andean bears, sure.
Jack: Andean bear cubs energetically fighting each other—
Austin: Right, yes, I recall now.
Jack: And one of them tossing the other one off a sort of moat into some water and then getting chased. Most impressive tiger.
Austin: Most impressive tiger award goes to…?
Jack: Ooh, good question. Well, it was either the big angry man tiger who desperately wanted to kill the young upstart man tiger.
Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.
Jack: Or the young upstart man tiger who desperately wanted to kill the old boss tiger.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: And they had to be separated, and they were so mad about this. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: I bet.
Art: Yeah, they were separated, but they knew about each other.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Love this.
Jack: They roared at each other, and it was terrifying. They walked angrily around and flicked their tails. [Austin sighs] They looked at each other through the glass, and then, when they were clearly sick of trying to get out that aggression on the other tiger, they came down to the viewing area [Austin: Ohh.] and looked extremely angrily. They were like, “Well, if I can't eat him…”
Art: Yeah, they just, like, paced around.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: “I might as well try and eat you.”
Austin: Yeah! Any luck?
Jack: Just— uh, no, but at one point he—
Austin: No, he didn't eat anybody.
Jack: Uh, he was on the other side of some glass. You know, like, inches away.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: And at one point, he just stopped and turned and looked at us, and Kat and I were both like, “Oh, Jesus!” He was great.
Austin: [laughs quietly] They’ll get you.
Jack: Oh, yeah.
Austin: If he can, you know what I mean? He’ll get you.
Jack: No messing about.
Austin: Mm-mm.
Jack: You know? If you go in the enclosure with the tapirs or with the anteater…
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Or with, you know, maybe even an elephant. The elephant might be curious, and you're in some danger. Tiger? Kill you.
Austin: Kill you. Yeah.
Jack: Just straightaway.
Austin: Mm-hmm. Shere Khan, you know?
Jack: Yeah. Jess said—
Austin: Wants the man-cub.
Jack: Yeah, wants to eat the delicious man-cub. Jess said that, you know, they probably also want to eat the zoo staff too.
Austin: Oh, yeah.
Jack: Who come in and feed them. They’re just like, “Well, I'm not gonna kill you today, because there’ll be consequences, but I might.”
Austin: Right, right, right. And you've given me this giant carcass to eat or whatever. I don't know what tigers eat.
Jack: Ah, some excellent gore.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: All through the zoo, some brilliant… [Jack and Austin laugh] real top tier gore for the animals and the animals enjoying their gore. Yeah, it was great. So much fun to see animals. I saw two snakes.
Austin: Mm.
Jack: One snake I was really— well, so, I figured if I went to the zoo and didn't see a snake…
Austin: Right. You're kind of missing an opportunity.
Jack: Yeah, yeah. And you want to feel a bit of fear. You want to be reminded, at the zoo, that you are not the creature of the Earth.
Austin: Oh, I see. I thought this was perhaps a memento mori thing. I thought you were gonna be like, you like to remember at the zoo that you will one day die.
Jack: No, I… [laughs] No, I get enough of that generally, I think. 
Austin: [laughs] Okay.
Jack: I think I— I saw a huge— what was that first snake we saw, Art?
Art: It was a giant python, and I think it was very well-named. [Austin laughs quietly]
Jack: They were not underselling that thing. And I did not— I obviously didn't care for it, but I could see it.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: I wasn't worried about it creeping up on me.
Austin: Right.
Jack: Then we saw a rattlesnake.
Austin: Mm.
Jack: And that one I was less fond of. [laughs] 
Austin: Do not like them.
Jack: No. But Art and KB were pretty stoked to see that one, I think.
Austin: Did it do the rattle, or was it just chilling?
Art: It was just chilling.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: It was climbing down, which is an interesting thing to see a snake do.
Austin: Oh. Yeah.
Jack: Horrid. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Yeah, seems scary.
Art: In an area that I've, like, since decided was sort of being…I don't know if it was being racist or colonialist or both.
Jack: Mm. Probably both.
Art: But this section was like, it was…what was it called? It was called something about elephants.
Austin: Hmm.
Jack: Elephant enclosure? Elephant…elephant…
Art: Well, what was the elephant area called?
Jack: Uh, San Diego Zoo map… [typing] San Diego zoo map. It was called Elephant Odyssey.
Austin: Ah.
Art: Elephant Odyssey.
Austin: Sure.
Art: And it had elephants, it had lions, and it had a jaguar. It had that rattlesnake. It had california condors. And the theming in it was: these are all animals that they themselves or some relative used to live in Southern California.
Austin: Oh, sure. So like, these elephants didn't, but there were mastodons or whatever.
Art: But there were elephant— there were, yeah, a related elephant creature.
Austin: Right.
Art: They had camels, because there used to be giant camels over here.
Jack: Oh, huge camels.
Austin: Really?
Jack: Camels so big that a regular camel could walk under the legs of.
Austin: Wow.
Art: And not touch.
Austin: We gotta get them back. [Jack laughs quietly]
Art: Why?
Austin: Jurassic Park but for these big camels. [Jack and Art laugh] Though, they never did that, huh? They never did other old animals park. [laughs] 
Art: No. [laughs] 
Jack: Yeah, like the, uh…you know the, um…what’s that proto whale that was like a fucked up little guy? Uh, let me see.
Austin: Sorry, I've just found the list of the top ten extinct animals, which I feel like is not a list that… [laughs] 
Jack: What do you mean top ten?
Austin: I don't— I didn't make the list. They don't really tell you…it’s not really clear what the prioritization on this list is. It just, top ten.
Jack: Top ten. Number one: mammoths.
Austin: Do you want to know what number— no, you're close. That’s number two.
Art: Wait, top ten what?
Austin: Extinct animals.
Art: Top ten extinct animals. What was your guess, Jack?
Jack: Uh…
Austin: You said—
Jack: Mammoth.
Austin: Mammoth, yeah.
Jack: Uh, dinosaurs.
Art: [thoughtfully] Top ten extinct animals. 
Jack: Uh, the T-rex. 
Art: The dodo.
Austin: The dodo is not— you got number two and number three. Survey says: ding, number three. The dodo. 
Jack: [laughs quietly] What a good television show that would be.
Austin: [laughs quietly] Uh huh. Most extinct animals. I mean, they’re not most extinct, because you just gotta get to zero, otherwise it’s not extinct.
Jack: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: What’s weird is dinosaur is not on this list at all.
Jack: Mm. Okay, let me see. Uh, Barbary lion.
Austin: No. What is that? What is a Barbary lion? I don't know what this is.
Jack: So, a Barbary lion was a type of lion that went extinct.
Austin: Oh, sure.
Jack: And the last known photograph of the Barbary lion is one of the saddest things you will ever see. It is an unbelievable picture.
Austin: This is a cool looking lion.
Jack: I'm gonna put this last known picture in the chat now.
Austin: Oh, this is wonderful.
Jack: That is the last known picture.
Austin: And so sad.
Art: I thought it was gonna be worse. I thought it was gonna be more, like…
Austin: Mm.
Jack: It’s sad in a different way than the way you think it is.
Art: Yeah.
Jack: Because this picture was taken from a plane.
Austin: Oh, wow.
Jack: This is someone flying over the Atlas Mountains and looking down [Austin: Yeah.] and taking a picture of this lion with snow, I have to imagine? Probably sand. Sand tracks behind it. And they never saw it again, never. Just amazing.
Austin: An animal out of context is such an odd thing.
Jack: Truly an animal out of context is such an odd thing. Uh, can you give me a clue? How many— what— is it a mammal or is it a bird?
Austin: It’s a mammal. Number one is a mammal. You gotta— humans—
Jack: Do I know what this is?
Austin: Yes. 
Jack: I've heard of this creature.
Art: Is it some sort of rhinoceros?
Austin: No. Here’s the thing: this list is goofy, and you have to remember, mammoths is on this list, which is to say it’s not just things that are modern, like, contemporary extinction. Not just the dodo, not just the Tasmanian tiger, you know? It’s…
Art: Is it, like, Neanderthal man? Like, uh…
Austin: Oh, that’s a great one. It’s not. [Jack laughs] That’d be kind of judgmental. I would— I mean, I guess they’re not humans, but I think they’re probably people.
Jack: Mm, mm.
Austin: I guess people are animals.
Jack: People are animals.
Art: I think people are animals. That’s where I'm at here.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I think so.
Austin: Like that Doors song.
Jack: How many legs does it have?
Austin: Four.
Jack: And it walks on four legs.
Austin: Walks on four legs. Classic animal.
Jack: It’s a classic animal?
Austin: Yeah, it’s a classic animal.
Jack: Dog. Some kind of—
Austin: No.
Jack: Is it some kind of fucked up dog?
Austin: No. It’s extinct.
Jack: Is it some kind of fucked up cat?
Austin: Yes.
Jack: Many types of fucked up—
Art: Is it a saber-toothed tiger?
Austin: It’s a saber-toothed cat.
Jack: Ohh.
Austin: Saber-toothed tiger or saber-toothed lion, yes.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: Number one on the list.
Jack: Yeah, those things were amazing.
Austin: Gone now.
Jack: I'm looking at— gone now, alas. No photos of them taken on a plane. And you kill so many of them in video games. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: You just— 
Jack: I feel like that is…
Austin: They’re just constantly being killed.
Jack: [laughs] Just constantly attacking you. My favorite extinct animal is the distant ancestor of the whale, because, unlike the human, the whale went down into the water. He lived on the land, and then he said, “Goodbye,” and went into the water.
Austin: “Goodbye!” Right, yeah, uh huh.
Art: But it had to go both ways, right? Because everything started in the water. It’d go water, land, and was like, “You know what?”
Jack: “I've had enough of this.”
Austin: “I'm going back down there.”
Jack: And I really like this photo composite of him, because he looks like the nicest guy. I'm posting the image now.
Austin: It’s this little guy who runs around on all four?
Jack: Yep!
Art: But is this as big as a whale? Would this would have been, like…
Jack: Nope.
Art: 30 feet long? No, okay.
Austin: Can you describe what— it’s kind of like a—
Jack: He looks like—
Art: This is a dog.
Austin: It’s like a— but is has kind of—
Jack: A dog that has been extruded. [laugh quietly]
Austin: Yeah, it has been extruded. There’s, like, almost kangaroo qualities or, like, rat qualities.
Jack: And he’s got a looong, looong face.
Art: Long tail.
Austin: Yeah, long face, long—
Jack: And a big smile.
Austin: “Looong” is actually how you pronounce it when you're talking about this animal.
Jack: Long. [laughs quietly] Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: What’s this thing called?
Jack: This thing is— [laughs quietly] what’s this guy called? This guy is called an Indohyus.
Austin: Indohyus.
Jack: Yeah. Uh, let’s see. 
Austin: Oh, I see.
Jack: They are a small chevrotain-like animal found in the Himalayas, and it’s one of the earliest known non-cetacean ancestors of whales.
Austin: Cool.
Jack: They are an omnivorous pig-like creature about the size of a raccoon or domestic cat.
Art: Huh.
Austin: And they thought, “I'll just hold my breath.”
Jack: [laughs] For a really, really, really, really long time.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Goodbye!
Austin: Thanks for stopping by.
Jack: Into the ocean.
Austin: Leapt right in. Yeah, perfect.
Jack: Lovely. We should have tried that.
Austin: Maybe we still could.
Jack: Ah, look at this guy. This is another early whale.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Hehe, yeah.
Austin: Heheh! Hehe!
Art: I think they call that a frog whale. I think that’s…
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Great face. Incredible face. Incredible tail situation.
Jack: Flattened.
Austin: Yeah. Flat Fuck Friday, right here.
Jack: [laughs] Flat Fuck Friday. That’s just a little guy.
Austin: Is this Janjucetus?
Jack: Janjucetus?
Austin: Janjucetus. Janjucetus? Yeah.
Jack: Uh, let me see. Yeah, he is.
Austin: Oh, he can get mean, though.
Jack: Can he? [laughs quietly] Can he?
Austin: Oh, let me tell you. He can get a little mean. Look at this. Rrragh.
Jack: Oh, yeah. Yeah. The only known fossil was found in Australia in the late 1990s by a teenage surfer named…Staumn Hunder.
Art: Oh, so this is just fake. This is a prank.
Austin: Named Down Under? Excuse me?
Art: Yeah.
Jack: No, no, no. Staumn Hunder.
Art: No.
Austin: This is a prank. [laughs] Yeah. We gotta get to the bottom of this one. Art, you wanna get a plane to Australia? 
Art: Yeah.
Austin: We’re gonna figure this whole thing out?
Art: If no one else has found one of these, this is fake. [Austin laughs]
Jack: Staumn Hunder. Well, no, it is called Janjucetus hunderi. Wait, Staumn Hunder is on Twitter? But has never tweeted.
Austin: This motherfucker.
Art: But they’re on Twitter, and, weirdly, their @ is D-R-I-L. [Austin laughs]
Jack: Oho! [thoughtfully] Staumn Hunder. Whoa. Oh!
Art: It just sounds so much like “down under,” Jack. You have to hear it, right?
Jack: I really do. Here’s a—
Austin: [questionable Australian accent] Staumn Hunder, here.
Art: Yeah.
Jack: [accent] Hello. [quiet laughter] 
Art: [accent] Blimey, I'm Staumn Hunder.
Jack: I don't know if the Australians say “blimey.”
Austin: [accent] Here’s me whale.
Jack: [laughs] I don't think they talk like that.
Austin: Oi, govna.
Jack: [accent] All right, govna, I founded me a whale. [Austin laughs] 
Art: Oh.
Jack: [accent] I was just walking along the beach.
Art: Are either of you on “Americans are dumb and can't pronounce things” Twitter? 
Jack: Mm-mm.
Art: Uh, not Twitter, TikTok?
Austin: No. I'm not, no.
Jack: What can't Americans pronounce now?
Austin: Staumn Hunder.
Jack: Mm-hmm.
Art: They talk—I'm gonna put this in the chat—about how, you know sometimes when you're, um, reading a book and someone will pause in a sentence and say something like [typing] this or this?
Austin: Oh, you're putting this over here.
Jack: Yep.
Austin: “Erm”? Yeah, or you go, “Uh, mm…”
Art: Yeah. Yeah, those are “uh” and “mm” written in British.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah.
Art: I didn't know this.
Jack: Oh, what did you think? They were saying, “erm.”
Austin: Because you just said the one. You just said “um…” and that’s that one.
Art: Yeah, “um” and “uh.” I know now, but I would've [Austin: Right.] been like, “errr.” [Austin laughs]
Jack: Err.
Art: Erm.
Austin: Art has typed E-R space E-R-M into the chat.
Art: Yeah.
Jack: Er, erm.
Winnie-the-Pooh Talk [0:13:42]
Art: Well, the extension of this goes to Winnie-the-Pooh.
Austin: Oh.
Art: Okay, so, does everyone know all of the— Winnie-the-Pooh has a bunch of friends.
Jack: He does, he does.
Austin: I can name four of them at least.
Jack: I can name— I can name—
Art: Can you name some of them that are not the donkey?
Jack: Yes.
Austin: Tigger.
Jack: Tigger.
Art: Tigger. Tigger and what—
Austin: Piglet.
Art: Okay. And those are all names that have to do with what animal they are, right?
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Yes. Tigger is a tiger. Piglet is a pig. Kanga is a kangaroo. The works.
Austin: It’s Kanger? Is that right?
Art: It’s Kanga and Roo.
Austin: Sure. Okay.
Jack: Oh, Kanga and Roo. Right, right, right.
Art: Mother and daughter.
Austin: Right, right, right.
Jack: Right, right, right.
Austin: Sure, sure, sure, sure, sure.
Art: So, these are all names that have to do with what they are, and then you have the donkey. The donkey’s name is Eeyore.
Austin: Yeah. 
Art: Eeyore.
Austin: [imitating donkey] “Eeyore, eeyore.” It’s like a…
Jack: That’s the sound a donkey makes.
Austin: An onomatopoeia. 
Jack: Yeah.
Art: Well, but it’s an English onomatopoeia. You would never…that that is also a silent R.
Austin: Right. We would call that “hee-haw, hee-haw” here in the United States.
Art: Yeah, and the— yeah, that the “eeyah” would be…
Austin: Right.
Art: Would have an R in it and you would not pronounce it. I just learned that this week.
Austin: Right, sure.
Art: Thanks, TikTok.
Jack: What had you been calling that guy this whole time? You just thought—
Art: I've been calling him Eeyore, but I was just like, “I don't know, what’s Winnie?” You know? That’s just his name.
Jack: Oh.
Art: His name’s Eeyore.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: Wait, is Winnie a do— a dog. Jesus. [Jack laughs quietly] Is Winnie tied to bears in some way that I don't know?
Jack: I don't think so.
Art: I don't think so.
Jack: Let me see.
Art: So, one of them has a weird name? Why can't two of them have a weird name? [laughs quietly] 
Austin: Yeah. What’s the owl called? Is it just Owl?
Jack: Owl.
Art: I think it might—
Austin: Mr. Owl or something?
Art: Owl. Mr— 
Jack: Owl.
Art: No, Mr. Owl I think is from the Tootsie Roll commercial. [laugh quietly]
Austin: That’s not the same guy? [laughs quietly] It’s just Owl. Wait, is that not the same guy?
Art: That’s certainly not legally the same guy. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: They didn't license— I guess not. It’s a different owl, Mr. Owl. Mr. Owl—
Art: Winnie-the-Pooh, also known as Edward Bear. Who the fuck calls him Edward Bear?
Austin: Christopher Robin, right?
Jack: Christopher Robin named this— so, Christopher Robin was a real guy. That was A. A. Milne’s son. [reading] Christopher Robin named the toy bear after Winnie, a Canadian black bear he often saw at London Zoo, and Pooh, a friend's pet swan they had encountered while on holiday. [Jack and Art laugh quietly] I'll go on my holiday, and I'll meet the swan.
Austin: And give the name to the bear. Sure.
Jack: And the bear was named— it was Winnie, short for Winnipeg.
Austin: Oh.
Art: Oh.
Jack: Oh.
Austin: But then, all the rest of the animals—
Art: So, why can't— why can't that— you know, why can't— if Winnie-the-Pooh is just nonsense, why can't Eeyore just be nonsense? [Austin laughs]
Jack: It’s a good question. It’s a good question. Winnie— Winnipeg came from during the war. Someone bought a bear.
Austin: Is it sad?
Art: Someone came to America and stole a— to Canada and stole a bear and…?
Jack: Yeah. Well, he might have been Canadian. Yeah, a Canadian man bought a bear in World War I in Canada in Ontario, and then…so, that’s why he’s named Winnipeg, because that’s where he lived. And then he came all the way to England, and he became the mascot of the Second Canadian Infantry Brigade Headquarters. Huh.
Art: Hmm.
Austin: Sure. Now, wait a second. Why isn't Owl named Hoot or, like, Owly? 
Jack: Hmm, great question. Let’s see.
Austin: Because I'm reading a sentence here where it says, “The other animals in the Hundred Acre Woods were also toys that Christopher Milne owned. These were Tigger, Piglet, Eeyore, Kanga, and Roo. A. A. Milne also included Rabbit and Owl, but these were from his imagination.” Yeah, barely.
Jack: Maybe he was— [Jack and Art laugh]
Art: Didn't do any work. [Austin laughs]
Jack: He didn't want to—
Art: Spent an afternoon being like, “Hooty. Hooter. Hoohoo,” [Austin and Jack laugh] and was like, “Owl and Rabbit. I'm going to lunch.”
Austin: I'm going— yeah, I'm not even gonna try with Rabbit. No one knows what sounds rabbits make.
Jack: No one knows what noises they make. Yeah.
Austin: He wrote down Robert once and was like, “No.”
Jack: No, he’s not gonna be Robert.
Austin: “But I'll give him the personality of a Robert.” Uh huh.
Jack: Let’s see.
Austin: Well, actually, Rabbit is how you pronounce Robert in British English.
Jack: In British— yeah.
Austin: It’s why you call them Rab sometimes. [laughs quietly] 
Jack: Yeah, exactly. Absolutely.
Austin: Is Rab Short for Robert? Is that real?
Jack: Yeah, I believe so.
Austin: Okay.
Jack: Yep. In Scotland, I think. 
Austin: Gotcha.
Jack: I don't know any English Rabs.
Austin: Okay. Yeah, I think that he was, like…I think he was like, “I'm not gonna give these—” He had been looking for an opportunity to name some characters, right? Because Piglet, Eeyore, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] Kanga, Roo, and Tigger are all Christopher Robin’s names, and A. A. Milne is like, “I want to— if I had my druthers, I'd call that animal…Rabbit.”
Austin: Mm-hmm. Yeah, no more of these goofy names. 
Jack: No more of these goofy names. 
Austin: Anyway, I seem to have found a reading comprehension test about Winnie-the-Pooh.
Jack: Oh, test us. Come on. Yeah.
Austin: Well, I mean, you have to read the thing. It’s the thing where you read the thing—
Jack: We’ll be fine.
Austin: Okay. Who wrote the stories—
Art: I've also just seen this— hold on. This 2011 film where Peter Capaldi was the voice of Rabbit.
Jack: Oh, cool.
Austin: Oh. Interesting. Sure.
Art: Yeah, would watch. Anyway.
Austin: All right. Do you want test one, two, or three?
Jack: Do they get harder?
Austin: I have no idea. It’s one of those things where you print this out and then give to your class, and that way, like, the two students next to each other couldn't cheat, because they’d have different questions. 
Jack: Okay.
Austin: That’s genuinely what I think I'm looking at here.
Jack: Yeah, all right. Give me two.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: That’s good, because that’s the one I started to read you already. Who wrote the stories about Winnie-the-Pooh?
Jack: That was A. A. Milne.
Art: A. A. Milne, yeah.
Austin: What happened that made him want to write them?
Jack: Probably the war, right? No. He saw his kid playing with toys.
Austin: This is a test for children, Jack. [Art laughs]
Jack: He saw his kid playing with toys.
Art: Yeah, it was existential crisis— I'm going with existential crisis because of the war.
Jack: War, war, war, the war. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: He wanted to write them after hearing his son invent voices for his toys when he played with them. This motherfucker walked in on his son playing Minecraft and making up voices and being like, “Now, this is a story. Now, I could do something…”
Jack: Oh, how are you doing, son?
Austin: Yeah, tell me more about Steve.
Jack: Are you winning, son? 
Austin: Yeah, exactly. [Jack and Austin laugh] All right, number three: How did he choose the name of the boy in his stories?
Jack: It’s his name. It’s his son’s name.
Art: It’s his— yeah.
Austin: Mm-hmm. How did Winnie-the-Pooh get his name? We know this one.
Art: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah, just…
Austin: This part we got.
Jack: The war. The war. War again.
Austin: The war. War again.
Art: War.
Austin: Where did the author get the idea of where to set his story?
Jack: Uh…
Art: I assume there was a woods somewhere.
Jack: They played in a wood together. 
Austin: Yeah, the—
Jack: Maybe while on holiday.
Austin: The Ashdown Forest is what it’s based on, apparently. That’s not what the name of the thing is, right?
Jack: No, it’s called the Hundred Acre Wood.
Austin: Yeah. Why…? I guess it’s based on the Ashdown Forest. Sure. What word does the author use that means…what? What? Okay, this is— what word does the author of this reading comprehension workbook, that you didn't get to read—
Art: This is gonna be hard. [laughter] 
Austin: —use that means that A. A. Milne made up the characters of Owl and Rabbit? We did cover this material in the conversation. 
Jack: Yeah, let’s say: imagination?
Art: No.
Austin: That’s correct!
Jack: Ah! [laughs] 
Art: Wow!
Austin: That’s correct, Jack. [laughs] 
Jack: Ah, please.
Art: I wasn't gonna guess that, so that’s…
Jack: Look, listen.
Austin: Full points.
Jack: I have an undergraduate degree in English Literature. [Austin and Jack laugh]
Austin: Ohh, it’s finally coming in use. Perfect. [Jack laughs] What does Winnie-the-Pooh think about himself?
Jack: Oh, gosh.
Art: Whoa.
Jack: He’s not…he thinks he’s a bear of very little brain. He—
Austin: Jack, that is correct. Winnie-the-Pooh thinks he isn't very clever. In another version of this test, the question is: What does it mean when Winnie-the-Pooh says he’s a creature of very little brain? And so—
Jack: Not clever.
Austin: Not clever, yeah. Name two things that prove Winnie-the-Pooh is a good friend.
Jack: Oh, shit. This one’s for you, Art.
Art: Oh, shit. Um…I mean, he’s helpful to his friends. He’s always…does he have a party for Piglet? Throws a party for—
Austin: You're so close, but that’s incorrect.
Art: Oh.
Austin: I have a list of things, and you can give me any two of them to get a success here, to get a win.
Jack: Cares about his friends.
Austin: Yeah, but it’s more specific. Specific examples, because—
Jack: Gets the kite out of the tree.
Austin: Uh, that’s not one of these, no.
Jack: Fuck. [laughs quietly] 
Art: Um…
Austin: Well, I, you know.
Art: He puts up with Eeyore’s bullshit. Is that on there?
Austin: It’s not. It’s more like puts up with Owl’s bull— here’s the answers: Pooh helps others who don't think that they can do something, like Piglet. He visits Eeyore and takes him a birthday present.
Art: Oh.
Austin: He lets Rabbit take the lead, and he listens to Owl talk about everything he knows. So it is basically puts up with people’s shit.
Art: Yeah, because there’s very few people in this world where I'd be— if you came up to me and— well, I mean, you could do it. [Austin laughs] But if they came up to me and were like, “Can I tell you about everything I know?” 
Austin: Yeah.
Art: I would say no to most people.
Austin: We all have busy lives.
Jack: I'd be curious about where they’d run out of information.
Austin: Yeah, sure.
Jack: At what point do they give up?
Austin: What does Pooh enjoy doing?
Jack: Oh, uh…
Art: Eating honey.
Jack: Eating honey!
Austin: That’s one. There are two more.
Jack: Hanging out with his friends.
Austin: Hmm…we’ve already said this one. 
Jack: Sitting and thinking.
Austin: We've said this one already.
Jack: Going on a walk.
Austin: What’s he do with his friends?
Jack: Hangs out with them.
Austin: What’s he do with them?
Art: Talks to them.
Austin: Yeah, to what end? What’s he trying to do, generally, with his friends?
Jack: Get to, like, some sort of sense of commonality, shared connection.
Art: To make his friends happy.
Austin: He’s helping them. He’s helping others. And there’s a third one here that we have not touched on at all.
Art: He likes to spend time with Christopher Robin.
Austin: No. That’s a friend.
Art: Well. Is he?
Austin: Eh. He likes to think up hums.
Art: Oh, sure.
Jack: Oh, sure.
Austin: And finally: Why was the book Winnie-the-Pooh and the Royal Birthday written?
Jack: Because it was presumably the queen’s birthday, right?
Austin: Which birthday?
Jack: Um…uh, 90th.
Austin: Correct.
Art: No. What?
Austin: Correct. That’s this particular book, Art, not the—
Art: Wasn't he dead for some time?
Austin: Winnie-the-Pooh?
Jack: What? Who? Winnie-the-Pooh?
Art: No, A. A. Milne. [laughs quietly] 
Jack: No.
Austin: Yeah, but someone else wrote the book. It was 2016.
Art: Oh.
Jack: Someone else wrote it. Someone else wrote it. It was written by Jane Riordan.
Austin: Yeah, and so, yeah, they were both 90 in the year 2016, so. 
Jack: Oh.
Austin: What’s something else that Pooh likes to eat, besides honey?
Jack: Honey. Uh… [laughs quietly] Uh…shit, he’s kind of—
Art: German children.
Jack: Hmm… [Austin laughs]
Art: ‘Cause of the war.
Austin: The war. The war again. [laughs] 
Jack: ‘Cause of the war. Ah.
Art: This is quickly turning into Fawlty Towers. [Jack and Austin laugh]
Jack: I don't think he eats German children.
Austin: It’s not German children.
Jack: Sandwiches.
Austin: No.
Jack: No, I'm thinking of, like, very British…
Austin: You're thinking of Yogi Bear.
Jack: Right, yeah, he is famous [Art: Yeah.] for eating picnic basket foods.
Art: Pic-a-nic baskets.
Austin: Baskets.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: [Yogi Bear voice] Eh, Boo-Boo?
Jack: Mm.
Art: [Yogi Bear voice] Wa-eee.
Austin: We should get Yogi Bear on the show. I think he’d do great. [all laugh quietly] I know we have a “no guests” policy, but… 
Jack: [laughs] Uh, what— biscuits. What’s the—
Art: [Yogi Bear voice] What’s the weakest part of a mech? [Austin laughs]
Austin: [Yogi Bear voice] Boo-Boo! [Jack laughs]
Art: [Yogi Bear voice] Austin, my boy. The fucking pilot! [Austin and Jack laugh] I'm losing it when I do…
Austin: [laughs] You are, a little bit. It’s condensed milk.
Jack: Eugh. What, just plain? [Austin laughs] Just loose?
Art: Very honey-like, if you think about it.
Austin: [laughing] Loose condensed milk, correct.
Jack: Eugh.
Austin: Yeah, that’s how I feel.
Jack: At least put it in something.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Has he never heard of dulce de leche? He’d fucking love it.
Austin: 1926, no.
Jack: No.
Art: Or a Thai iced coffee?
Austin: No, definitely not.
Jack: No. No, 100% not.
Austin: Yeah, okay.
Jack: What, that’s it? That’s the quiz? We’re done?
Austin: Well, you already solved the main quiz. I'm now looking at— I mean, I have some other questions. [Jack laughs] Like, what does Pooh have that helps him solve problems?
Jack: Brain. His head.
Austin: But isn't he the little brain?
Jack: And yet, he does solve them. This is the dichotomy.
Austin: What type of knowledge does Pooh have?
Jack: Street smarts.
Austin: That’s right. Common sense. It helps—
Art: [laughing] Street smarts.
Austin: [laughs] Head on a swivel, wallet in the front pocket. [Jack and Art laugh]
Art: Oh my god. I want to see Winnie-the-Pooh does a drug deal so bad.
Austin: [laughs] We can now, right? Isn't that the world we live in?
Art: Oh, because it’s public domain?
Jack: No, Winnie-the-Pooh surely is not. He surely is not.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It’s this year. It’s this year. [Jack gasps] There’s that ridiculous horror movie coming out.
Jack: Oh, there is that ridiculous…
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Huh.
Austin: Uh huh.
Jack: Oh my god. Wait a second.
Austin: So I think it’s just Winnie-the-Pooh, maybe, right? It’s just the main thing.
Jack: Kafka is also in the public domain.
Austin: Yeah, it’s time. We’re living in an era, you know?
Jack: Shit, Austin, you want to adapt The Castle?
Austin: Yeah, sure.
Jack: [laughs quietly] Just do it.
Austin: Let’s do it. We should…
Jack: Wow. 
Austin: [laughs] Speaking of, we should get to this podcast of ours—
Jack: Yeah, absolutely.
Austin: And see what Connadine’s up to up in that castle, while the other rest of our…
Jack: As we get ready for the show after Bluff City, which is going to be an adaptation of Franz Kafka’s The Castle.
Austin: [sighs] I would do it. That sounds great.
Art: Starring Winnie-the-Pooh. [Austin and Jack laugh]
Austin: That’s right. And all the character—
Art: [laughs] And Yogi Bear, which is not public domain, so download those episodes quick, [Austin laughs] because we’re getting sued.
Jack: Yogi Berra is no longer with us.
Austin: What? Sorry, did you say Yogi Berra?
Jack: Okay. Right, I see.
Austin: Or did you say Yogi Bear?
Jack: I understand what’s happening.
Austin: Okay. Okay, did you confuse…?
Jack: [laughing] No. No. No.
Austin: For how long in this conversation did you think we meant the baseball catcher Yogi Berra?
Jack: Never, but I did briefly consider…no, okay. No, this is going on tape. I— look. I briefly considered that maybe Yogi Berra briefly played Yogi Bear as sort of a cross-promotional thing.
Art: Oh. No, that’s not true.
Jack: No. No.
Austin: Right.
Jack: No. But Yogi Berra—
Austin: Okay, wait a second. Now, here’s a funny thing. [Austin and Jack laugh quietly]
Art: Finally. 
Austin: [laughs] Yogi Berra— okay, sorry, [reading] “Yogi Bear first appeared in 1958. The name was similar enough to Berra’s name that he considered suing Hanna-Barbera, but Hanna-Barbera claimed the similarity was just a coincidence.”
Jack: What? No. bullshit it was just a coincidence.
Art: The fuck it was.
Austin: [laughs] That’s what I'm saying. [Jack laughs]
Art: He fucking fell for that?
Austin: Oh no! “Berra’s obituary by the Associated Press initially said that Yogi Bear had died.” [all laugh] No!
Jack: No! [typing] AP Yogi Berra obituary gaff.
Austin: Oh no!
Jack: I want to see a screencap of this.
Austin: “New York Yankees Hall of Fame catcher Yogi Bear has died. [laughs] He was 90”!
Art: That’s the thing, though. That must have been a file, right? They must have— that must have been prewritten.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Which means it was sitting in their system for years, and no one was like, “Hey, that says Yogi Bear.” [all laugh] 
Austin: Oh no! It’s not quite the thing from this past week. Art, did you see this thing about the ridiculous AI obit?
Jack: [laughing] Oh my god, that was amazing.
Art: No.
Austin: Oh my god, about Brandon Hunter, who was a Celtics and Magic player in the 2000s. [Jack laughs] The headline was generated by what seems like not OpenAI style, like, ChatGPT but, like, something that was scrubbing the internet to plagiarize articles and rewrite them, right?
Art: Okay.
Austin: And the headline was “Brandon Hunter useless at 42”. 
Jack: [laughs] Why?
Austin: Which is brutal!
Jack: Why did it say that?
Austin: I don't know. It’s bad.
Jack: Was he useless at 42? Maybe there was, like, a—
Austin: I mean, he was dead at 42, unfortunately. That’s the thing that’s—
Jack: Oh, he was dead at 42? I didn't know it was, like—
Austin: That’s the tragedy. He died, and it’s—
Jack: Oh my god.
Austin: The original headline that they were pulling from was “Brandon Hunter dead at 42”, right?
Jack: But it said “useless” for some reason.
Austin: Because “useless” is, like, a third-way synonym on the word “dead”.
Jack: Oh my god.
Austin: This is how it’s— do you see? 
Jack: Yeah. Don't do that.
Austin: [laughs quietly] It’s a nightmare! Uh huh! We live in hell time.
Jack: Oh my god.
Austin: Uh huh.
Jack: And unlike, hilariously, “New York Yankees Hall of Fame catcher Yogi Bear has died,” which was, like, Mark did that by accident. [Austin and Jack laugh]
Austin: Yes, exactly. [sighs] All right.
Jack: [laughs] Yeah, let’s Time.is. 
Austin: Anyway, Yogi Berra should have sued.
Art: I hope people look in the chat and see these things and just…
Jack: Yeah, Janine is already mad at us. [laughs] 
Austin: Janine thinks that we’re doing something, though. Do you know what I mean? And we’re not.
Jack: Yeah. I said, “Staumn Hunder,” and Janine posted a GIF of someone saying, “Can you just be cool?” [Austin and Jack laugh]
Austin: All right. 
Jack: Okay. 
Austin: Time.is.
Jack: Let’s do it.
Art: And now we can't name someone Staumn Hunder.
Austin: Prove it. Why not? Other people can, you know…
Jack: No, they have to be called Erm Er. [all laugh] 
Austin: They have to be called Yogi Berra. All right.
Jack: Yogi— okay. Okay. 
Austin: 55 seconds.
[they clap]
Austin: Okay.
Jack: International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer. Great. Good to know.
Austin: Uh huh.
Jack: Also, rare banger Time.is quote today by the regularly great Emily Dickinson.
Austin: Sure.
Jack: Who says, “Forever is composed of nows,” and she’s right.
Austin: Let’s carry that forward.
Art: Yeah.
Cut [0:31:52]
Ali: I am now ready. [clears throat repeatedly] I am now ready to Time.is. [laughs quietly] 
Jack: I am now ready to Time.is.
Janine: I am now ready to Time.is. [Ali laughs]
Jack: Together, we friends are ready. [Ali and Jack laugh]
Ali: Let’s do it.
Janine: United.
Ali: 50.
[they clap]
Ali: Not a single clap. I just have to— I felt the claps in the universe, because we had done our powerup. 
Jack: Can you feel it when—
Janine: By the power of claps! [Ali laughs]
Jack: When anybody claps, or is it just us, because of the amount of times that we’ve all done it? We’ve attuned.
Ali: I think it was just…it’s being a part of the experience is feeling it as much as it is hearing it.
Jack: Right.
Janine: I feel it when anyone claps, and that’s why I have clinical anxiety. 
Ali: Oh.
Jack: Oh my god. Could you imagine? It would be awful. [all laugh] It’d be terrible.
Janine: That’s where it comes from. 
Ali: Are, like—
Janine: That’s why I take pills labeled “clap deafeners.”
Jack: Mm.
Ali: Is, like, the Super Bowl worse for you or, like, the Emmys?
Janine: Um… [Ali laughs] Hmm. I think it’s, like, school assembly season is the worst one. You know?
Ali: Oh, graduation day.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: All across the world.
[“No Crisis” by Jack de Quidt plays]