Clapcast 21: The Community


Transcriber: Cy @vlasdygoth




JACK: He's startlingly placid. Austin, you will not like to look at this man. 


ALI: Yeah, what?


JANINE: Is his website just braco.me? 


JACK: [cross] How are we spelling this guy's name? 


JANINE: [cross] Oh, it sure is. Hey, it's Braco! I'm gonna put this… in the dog pound. 


JACK: I hate Braco. 


JANINE: Yeah… 


JACK: Look at him! 


JANINE: The silent gaze of Braco.


JACK: He just— yeah, he'll, he'll come and he'll look at you.


JANINE: Yeah. 


ALI: Maybe it's like a healing energy?


JACK: It is.


ALI: For the like— 


JANINE: It's supposed to like, yeah, it's supposed to like, make you happy and stuff and like, heal you, and...


ALI: It's like healing via eye contact, right? Through human connection. 


JACK: Yeah, yeah, yeah.


JANINE: And he'll like, book convention centers— not convention centers but like, he'll book you know, halls and things like that, and then he just sits up at the front— he doesn't like, give you an inspirational talk or anything, he just…


JACK: But I think we're all agreed, right, that you— if you were to look at Braco, and go… is this legitimate…


AUSTIN: I, you know what sucks the most? The thing that sucks the most is that I have not recorded any of what we just did. 


[Jack giggles]


JANINE: Austin…


AUSTIN: You distracted me with Braco! I literally opened up Audacity and then I was like, what's a Braco, and that was it!


[Janine groans]


JACK: Since this is, since this isn't going anywhere, I think we can safely say that his, it's actually pronounced Braco? 


AUSTIN: [cross] Is it Braco?


JANINE: [cross] Is it?


JACK: Apparently, yeah, it's Braco.


JANINE: Okay, I thought I was confused 'cause I had been searching for b-r-a-z-z-o? Um. And so I guess it is that. In sound. But not in spelling. 


AUSTIN: Braco…


JACK: Whoa!


JANINE: There's a very sad quote here where a guy says "Nothing is more satisfying or fulfilling to me than this." Than looking at this man!


AUSTIN: [sighs] We should go.


JACK: Wait, what is Braco Official Gazing Music? 


AUSTIN: Good question. Alright.


JANINE: Hm, what's the— Despacito? 


[MUSIC— Braco Official Gazing Music]


AUSTIN: How's the— what's the, whoa, I can hear whatever's happening. Who's playing that, and why can I hear it?


JACK: It's the gazing music!


AUSTIN: Oh.


JANINE: It sounds gaze-y. 


[MUSIC fades]


AUSTIN: Um, how quickly can we get to Slovenia? 


JACK: This is Nancy Drew Music.


[Janine laughs]


AUSTIN: Germany, Germany, Austria, Germany, Austria, Austria, Croatia, Germany, Germany, let me tell you about Braco. Braco—


JANINE: [cross] Big in Germany. 


AUSTIN: Big in Germany, and every week—


JACK: [cross] [giggles] Just watch this video….


AUSTIN: Every single week, my guy is puttin' in work. Do I have to change my….


JANINE: By putting in work, you mean he's sitting and looking at things!


AUSTIN: Every week. Every single week.


JANINE: [cross] Let me tell you how much work I'd put in if my job was to look at things! Nonstop! 


AUSTIN: I'd get so bored, I couldn't do it.


JANINE: 18 hours a day, looking at shit, that's me! 


AUSTIN: Listen, he has group sessions on June… 7th, 8th, and 9th! In three different cities!


JANINE: Is this a real place in this video, or is this like, this reminds me of those like… okay, that, this is… 


JACK: It's like a target render.


JANINE: This, yeah this reminds me of like, in the 90s, sometimes they would do like CG music videos? 


AUSTIN: Uh huh?


JANINE: And it would be like, a very badly CG-ed violin playing itself or something? And then a bunch of like, shiny marble surfaces?


AUSTIN: Uh huh?


JANINE: I'm just saying the start of this video looks like that, and then Braco's in it, but it's like is this a— it looks, he looks, he looks 2D? He looks like the picture, but then like, blinks.


AUSTIN: [cross] He does look like the picture. Here's the thing about the livestream, I wanna wrap back aground, wa— looking at these events where people go to gaze at Braco's gaze, the, the gaze gazes back, uh. It's already basically livestreamed, he's a tiny man on a stage, and there are people in the hundreds going to see Braco, who are just seeing a camera like, a camera, like a video of him—


JACK: [cross] The Jumbotron.


AUSTIN: Being put up on a Jumbotron, yeah, on like a projected screen, and they're crying. Let me tell you, they are just, the tears are comin' out, and I think more power to them. If you go to a guy, if you go to an event and you see a guy on a stage and you just cry, you needed to cry, let me tell you.


JACK: Yeah, that's, that's, look. I've watched the youtube video of, of Chance the Rapper doing Everyday It Can Be Wonderful.


AUSTIN: Aw, yeah. And that's it.


JACK: And that makes me— and then I have a cry! And Braco's basically the same, except the doesn't say anything and Chance says a great deal and is extremely skilled at it. 


AUSTIN: Wait. I thought this was about his gaze? Why the fuck is there a subsection on this website called "Braco's voice?"


ALI: Hmm…


JACK: Doesn't have one. He speaks in a hell tone. [laughs] Only cats can hear!


AUSTIN: No! No!  This isn't true! "Braco's voice, an experience that can change your life, there are numerous reports describing the positive effects of Braco's voice!"


JANINE: How much extra is it? 


ALI: This is—


AUSTIN: "That is why people meet regularly in different cities to experience the recording of Braco's voice!"


JANINE: [cross] Oh my god…


AUSTIN: "Together, also when Braco is not present personally. In this form of experience, visitors are offered an introduction about Braco, then listen together to a ten minute recording of Braco speaking in Croatian! Afterwards, experiences are exchanged and even new friendships are made." Close yourself from the old, open yourself to the new, Janine. 


JACK: What were you gonna say, Ali?


AUSTIN: There are two ways to live your life, one is only, one is as though nothing is a miracle, the other is as though everything is a miracle. That's Albert Einstein, and Braco's quotin' him! Yeah, what's up Ali, sorry.


ALI: No, don't worry. I was gonna say it's an upsale. It's like— 


AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah.


JANINE: Yeah.


JACK: He's like— [laughs] but he has someone else say it for him, right? 'Cause it's like, you're here to see Braco gaze. He's not gonna just say like, and now do you wanna hear me talk? He has to have like Johnathan who comes out and says "And now for 25 dollars more, Braco will say the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog." Or the Einstein quote, or whatever.


AUSTIN: [cross] Right.


JANINE: I'm just saying, they're like, one economic turn away from, from selling jars of his smell. 


AUSTIN: [laughs] Um, well I haven't checked the shop yet, is that not available? [Janine laughs] Two, it's pretty affordable. I'm not gonna lie.


ALI: Oh!


JANINE: You—!


AUSTIN: Five euro to go see this guy.


ALI: Oh, okay. Is there like a Braco package price, like if I wanted his gaze and his voice for instance, is there like a combo?


AUSTIN: [cross] Oh, jeez. Y'know...


JACK: You can get that and you get entrance into the park early?


ALI: Hm!


JANINE: I— I have just been, I have been reading a lot, I've been skimming all of these visitor testimonials, half of them mention a necklace you can buy from him and how the necklace has improved their life, so I'm betting that necklace is not five fuckin' dollars, let me tell you.


ALI: [cross] Ohh…


AUSTIN: [cross] Oh, where is it? Let's see, shop. Where is… there's an album for sale. I don't see this necklace.


JANINE: The sun symbol necklace.


JACK: But what if we just google Braco necklace?


AUSTIN: Thank you.


JACK: Let's see. Oh my god, it's a… wait. Hang on a second.


JANINE: It's like, lopsided, if it's the symbol I think it is.


JACK: [cross] Hold on a second.


AUSTIN: [cross] Wait, is it a golden sun symbol?


JACK: [cross] Wait, wait, hold on a…


JANINE: Yeah.


AUSTIN: I think it's this.


JACK: Second. This can't be right. I think this is a joke, because the top headline is— oh my god. You google Braco necklace—


AUSTIN: Yeah, I'll take a look.


JACK: [cross] Top headline is "Did Braco—" 


AUSTIN: [cross] Whoa!


JACK: [laughs] "the Gazing Guru Murder His Mentor?" And if you click that…


JANINE: Yeah, I forgot about this!


JACK: It says, "Author's note".


AUSTIN: [cross] Yo! 


JACK: [laughs] Hey, you know at the beginning of books where it says, this is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons living or dead is coincidental? You wanna hear the next level of that? Well, it's this.


AUSTIN: Yeah.


JACK: "The intention of this article is not to accuse someone of a crime, but to posit a question that deserves further inquiry." 


AUSTIN: My "Did Braco the Gazing Guru Murder His Mentor" t-shirt is answering a lot of questions.


[lauther]


JACK: Oh, Jesus.


AUSTIN: Blah blah blah. Um. Well, did he? 


JANINE: I— I… hm. I listened to a podcast about him a while ago, and I feel like they came out a little unsure, but like, either this was a very sad accident, and like very unfortunate, or it's some cold-ass shit. I think he like—


AUSTIN: [cross] Daniel—


JANINE: [cross] Drowned or something? I don't remember.


JACK: [cross] He drowned… yeah.


AUSTIN: [cross] The author of this post— oh, go ahead. Go ahead.


JACK: He drowned and had uh, a bunch of um, kinda lacerations in his lower abdomen? Um… 


JANINE: Hm. 


JACK: At least, oh my— Jesus. I'm gonna read this paragraph 'cause there is some wild Braco stuff going on. "As the two men sit by the ocean together gazing out at the horizon, Prokic took off all his trademark gold jewelry, which he was never seen without, and his wallet, and placed them on the sand beside him. Moments later, a rogue wave emerged from the belly of the South African shoreline, and swallowed Pro— Prokic, leaving Braco intact, and jewelry and wallet unscathed. Braco's Wikipedia page at one point stated that Prokic's body was found, and had quote 'multiple gashes in the lower abdomen.' At least, this is the story as told by Braco himself, while the consensus seems to be that Prokic died, quotes, 'under suspicious circumstances', and has been left at that." 


AUSTIN: So. I have found another article. It is from Gawker, it's by Caity Weaver from 2014, and it says "This Man's Gaze is Harmful to Pregnant Women." … It's, this is a long piece on going to one of these events?


JACK: Oh it's by Caity Weaver?


AUSTIN: Yeah, it's, it's, what I'm reading is very good so far, I'm gonna save this for later.


JACK: Her long pieces about things are spectacular!


AUSTIN: Uh huh! Yup! And here's just an excerpt, uh. "The people on the floor are told to stand, too. Everyone tries to be completely still, so we all rock slightly in different directions and at different speeds, as if we were all attempting to stay level on our own floating chunk of ice. A not on Braco.net encourages attendees to quote, 'bring a photo of your child, or a person needing help, who cannot attend, as this method has been proven to be equally effective, and the most balanced way for someone to receive help who cannot attend.' In my purse, I cary a stack of computer printouts bearing images of troubled faces. Taylor Swift, Solange Knowles, recently ousted American Apparel CEO Dov Charney, sexy felon Jeremy Meeks, the US Men's Soccer team, a map of Iraq, and Gawker writer Taylor Burman." Great! Good! 


JACK: Hey, 21 days with Braco?


AUSTIN: 21 days. I like Daniel Eder, Eder? On, on, Daniel Eder, ASMR Spiritual Growth is the name of the account here on the Medium post you read from before, Jack? And it just says "This is a very cool article, nicely written, and nicely finished," smiley face. [Janine groans] And also, Braco's necklaces are a golden sun. They have some sun, there's a sun icon.


JACK: [cross] And diamonds in 'em.


AUSTIN: They do got diamonds in them.


JANINE: I don't know that those are— diamonds, come on.


AUSTIN: [cross] 14 karat gold. It says genuine fine diamonds! It says it!


JANINE: Hm…


AUSTIN: Genuine.


JANINE: Maybe they're lab diamonds...


AUSTIN: Is this the face of someone who would lie to you?


JANINE: Yes.


JACK: Is this the face of someone who wouldn't murder his mentor, but we are posing interesting questions? 


[Austin laughs]


JANINE: Maybe the necklace, the necklaces and stuff are gold, and maybe the wave was…


AUSTIN: [cross] Oh, wow…


JANINE: Not strong enough, and maybe the wave also had a knife! That's all!


AUSTIN: "Braco's gaze is connected to our sun. Which is a conduit of nourishment for the spirit. When people come to a gazing session, they receive for their spirit. People can experience a feeling that transforms them, awakens a belief in the future, better possibilities, health, and a more positive outlook on life. It can bring forth latent talents and simply dissolve long-standing blockages. This encounter offers an opportunity to solidify the foundation for people open to life, even its challenges, with a renewed strength and grace." We all know that already, obviously, we know why you would go to an event, because it would dissolve long-standing blockages, for instance. "Yet, the body also needs to have its material connection. The films and books about Braco and the golden sun symbol form this necessary bridge for the body. These are physical  components that people can use before or after a gazing session to connect with the gift at a body level. For those who cannot attend a live gazing session such as children, the elderly, or those infirmed, these tools offer a way to be reached by Braco's gift." And this, this is gonna get so important in a second, I just have to set y'all up, y'all don't understand.


JANINE: Mhm.


AUSTIN: "They are also important because it is difficult to explain this phenomenon to others, and the DVDs and books offer the information to open people to this new possibility where they may have been closed to such ideas before." Which I love the, the idea here of like, I have to convince people about Braco, check out this necklace. And this is it, this is the big key thing about understanding why these are important. "The DVDs, books and the golden sun symbol each represent a different type of nourishment for the body! Films not only offer information through segments on Braco on tour and in nature, gazing for audiences and scientific testimony, but also the telling of people's own stories of transformation and healing that open us to new possibilities. They simply help us to believe more strongly and partake in the spiritual nourishment present here. The films can also be played for groups or played quietly in the background within our homes or offices to bring in a positive influence." [Jack laughs] this continues to explain the different types of nourishment. It's like— it's like a, you know, you see a cereal commercial and it says it's part of our, like a daily balanced breakfast?


JACK: Mhm! 


AUSTIN: You need to go to the gazing session, to have a book, to have a kindle e-book, to have a book in espagnol, and to have a DVD, and also to have a necklace. That is the complete Braco meal.


JANINE: It's the balanced Braco breakfast.


AUSTIN: Exactly. Exactly! I wanna know—


JANINE: The mind is a powerful thing.


AUSTIN: It is! I've seen Split.


JACK: Hey, nice apartment you've got here, I really like what you've done with the place, the log fire is… is great. What's that film playing in the background? [Austin laughs] Is it just a man?


AUSTIN: That's Braco. Look at him.


JANINE: Imagine going into like, a getting like a job interview though, and going into an office, and there's just like, a TV in the corner just like, playing that at a murmur, and you're like… is that the… that's not the news.


AUSTIN: I went to a page on this website called "Theoretical Physics and Braco," and I'm not gonna read this whole thing, but I am gonna read the beginning of this, of this… paragraph. "The seventh and eighth dimensions form an information space, which is probably stimulated in the meetings with Braco." Thank you, Burkhard Heim. German theoretical physicist. Let's play a game. This nonsense is too fake for me! 


JANINE: It's amazing— the like, there's a degree of like, well he got this far, so maybe there's something to it, like? A scheme like this shouldn't even get off the ground, right?


AUSTIN: Well, this is like the same thing with the, with the Theranos thing we watched yesterday, right? Or, two days ago, or whatever, which is like, all these people are saying there's something here!


JACK: Mm!


JANINE: Hmmm… 


JACK: Well we gotta go!


AUSTIN: But there isn't. 


JACK: And I'm gonna pay you to high five him.


JANINE: [cross] Give Braco your blood. Is what I say. Let him look at your blood. 


AUSTIN: Just, if you give Braco a little thimble of my blood, he can tell me everything that's wrong with me. 


JACK: This machine doesn't work! Um, when should we clap?


JANINE: Thirty?


AUSTIN: Yeah, thirty.


JACK: A nice long walk up to it. 


AUSTIN: Mhm.


[four distinct claps]


ALI: The time is so much smaller than everything else, which I'm not used to.


JACK: Oh,what?


JANINE: Oh…


AUSTIN: That's not… right. 


JANINE: It like— oh, did you click it? Click the time?


ALI: No, it—


AUSTIN: No, that just makes it… hm.


JANINE: That makes it smaller. 


ALI: It's just in like a— 


AUSTIN: [cross] What?


JANINE: Takes stuff away. 


ALI: It's like, just a quarter of my, I'm just gonna… It's like, just a quarter of my screen, and they didn't squish down any of the text, so it's like… very. 


AUSTIN: Oh.


JANINE: Oh…


AUSTIN: Wait, is it, is it like, dynamic? Like, if I shrink this thing does it shrink?


ALI: Apparently. 


AUSTIN: No, mine doesn't.


ALI: Oh, because mine is huge, yeah!


AUSTIN: [cross] Oh, yes it does, yes it does, oh wow, look at that! You can like, make it bigger and smaller!


JACK: Weird. 


ALI: I would prefer to see the time over all of this other nonsense. 


JACK: Over this bullshit quote. 


AUSTIN: Hmm. 


ALI: What's up?


JANINE: Okay?


AUSTIN: Sorry, I'm, I'm good. Don't worry. 


JANINE: Uh huh… 


AUSTIN: Oh, there it is. I was explaining to the Discord where… who's that big man came from, and I needed to find the picture of the original big man. You know, Veteran Oakheart, the original big man.


[laughter]


JACK: From, from Guild Wars?


AUSTIN: From Guild Wars 2, yeah. Who is a Treant. Trent. Tree-ant? Trea— treant? Treant.


JACK: Treant. 


AUSTIN: Treant.


JACK: Tre-ant. 


AUSTIN: Tre— ooh, treant. Trant. It's not that one. It's not that one at all! Alright. Um, gotta take a sip of this coffee.


JACK: Oh my god, he's big! I've never seen Veteran Oakheart before!


AUSTIN: Mhm! Wait, have you not?


JACK: No, I was not there for who's that big man.


AUSTIN: Oh…


JACK: The original. 


AUSTIN: The— the true original.


JACK: He's a little unsettling!


AUSTIN: He's nice. Oakhearts are alright! There's a video here called "Who is— who is Oakheart, Guild Wars," which is very funny, okay. Who is he! Who is that big man?


JACK: Someone tell me!


[transition music]


[18:21]


DRE: I have an important wrestling question for Art when he gets back.


KEITH: I might know it.


DRE: Uh…


KEITH: I'm kidding, I won't know it.


DRE: Hey. We could— I could ask you.


KEITH: [cross] But I'll listen to it anyway. Yeah.


DRE: Um, I'm looking at this Wrestlemania promo art, and it looks like the Miz is wearing a Naruto headband. 


KEITH: Threstlemania?


DRE: Mhm. 


KEITH: What's Threstlemania?


DRE: Wrestle. Wrestle, not, not—


KEITH: Oh, I thought you said threstle. [Dre laughs] I was like, is that some offshoot Wrestlemania? What's the, what is the, the poster? If I look at the poster, I could tell you if it's a Naruto headband or not.


DRE: I just, I just linked it in the uh, the wrestling chat. I mean, it's not the Naruto headband, but it looks like a Naruto headband.


KEITH: It is Naruto-esque, definitely.


DRE: [cross] Yeah.


KEITH: Because it's got the silver thing in front, but it doesn't look like a um. [laughs] It is really silly. [Dre laughs] It doesn't look like a metal clip on a cloth thing, it looks like you just like, a weird metallic part to a nylon headband? With like, little studs all around? Do you notice the studs?


SYLVIA: Oh, are we lookin' at the Miz's stupid headband?


KEITH: [cross] Yeah.


DRE: [cross] Yeah, why is it a Naruto? Why is he a Naruto now?


SYLVIA: He's been doing that like, all year I think, I don't know why it is…


KEITH: He's been doing different kinds of Naruto things, or just specifically this headband.


SYLVIA: Specifically the headband. Specifically the Naruto headband. He's just been rocking a Naruto headband.


KEITH: [cross] Like he's not trying to conjure a genjutsu in the ring? 


SYLVIA: I— as far as— I mean, I haven't really been watching much, so he could be, I'm not an expert here anymore, but—


KEITH: That would be sick. I mean—


SYLVIA: To my knowledge, no. 


KEITH: That would be a really fun way to stretch the, the um. The limits of um, suspension of disbelief in wrestling is to have like, someone win via genjutsu. [laughter] Like, have, have someone cast a spell and have it work. In a wrestling match.


DRE: [cross] I mean they— they tried to have the Undertaker summon lightning, but I don't think he's ever won a match via lightning.


KEITH: Okay. Well, at least have it be effective, like have someone make like, have a thing where someone pretends to be hallucinating because of their opponent's genjutsu. 


AUSTIN: [cross] Oh, Wrestlemania?


DRE: [cross] [laughs] Alright I'm gonna run to the bathroom, now that I've—


KEITH: Yeah, that would let me, that would, I would watch Wrestlemania if someone was using genjutsu in the second.


SYLVIA: God, I, I would too. So, really quick, uh—


AUSTIN: Yes.


SYLVIA: I'm gonna have to run again in about ten minutes, he was just calling to let me know he's in the neighborhood.


AUSTIN: Cool. What are— what are everyone's hard outs for Wrestlemania? 


KEITH: None.


SYLVIA: None. Oh, 6:30 pacific time, is what uh, Art said on Wednesday, at least.


KEITH: Austin, you think I could hire some retainers while I'm here?


SYLVIA: [cross] Oh my god.


AUSTIN: [cross] You could look into it, certainly. You can certainly look into it!


DRE: Wait, 6:30 pacific? That can't be right, 'cause that's like 9:30 here.


AUSTIN: That's not right, there's no way that's right.


SYLVIA: Wait, wait wait, no, wait, did I— I think 6:30 eastern time.


KEITH: No, 6:30 our, our time.


AUSTIN: [cross] That makes more sense.


SYLVIA: [cross] Yeah, I misread it, 3:30 pacific.


KEITH: Yeah, yeah.


AUSTIN: Is the pre-show not on yet? 


KEITH: Art said that, Art said that, that he had to be like upstairs and watching by 4:00? And so like...


AUSTIN: Okay. That is a thirty minute walk, so. 


KEITH: I, I suggested that we stop at, at uh.


AUSTIN: Six, right.


KEITH: At 6:30 because that means that we'll go until 6:50.


AUSTIN: Yeah. Fair. 


DRE: [sighs] Am I gonna— am I gonna re-up my one month of WWE Network to watch Wrestlemania even though I haven't watched wrestling all year?


AUSTIN: I'm in the same place. My answer is probably not. Y'know.


SYLVIA: I like, super got my fix with that show last night? The Ring of Honor… New Japan one, 'cause that had all the bad of WWE and then also had like, the stuff I actually like.


DRE: I mean, any time Enzo shows up, y'know.


SYLVIA: Oh my god, don't get me fuckin' started.


AUSTIN: [cross] Fuck. Christ. 


DRE: Oh.


ART: Hey, hi.


AUSTIN: Speaking of the WWE, did you see that Linda McMahon is going to… take over uh, the… the some, some new role in Trump's super PAC, right?


SYLVIA: [cross] Fundraising or something, right?


DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: Yeah.


DRE: She was already…. Doing something, yeah.


KEITH: [cross] She quit the administration in order to do this.


AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah, but now she's gonna be one of the PACs, right?


KEITH: Yeah.


ART: I thought you were gonna say that she was gonna be in the Federal Reserve, 'cause everyone's talking about that this week, and I was gonna, I was just gonna… I was just gonna go to sleep.


AUSTIN: Disconnect.


KEITH: The— 


AUSTIN: Go to bed, yeah, uh huh.


KEITH: The tweet that I saw was that Linda McMahon quit her job that she got by being a big Trump fundraiser to go be a big Trump fundraiser.


AUSTIN: Mhm. Love it.


KEITH: Yeah.


AUSTIN: Love it. Wrestlemania. Wrestlemania season, baby. Ugh.


DRE: Oh, I didn't realize Bautista and Triple H were fighting for Triple H's career.


AUSTIN: That's it. That's what it's for.


ART: On this, the eighteenth anniversary of Linda McMahon rising out of that wheelchair to kick Vince McMahon in the balls so that he would lose his match against Shane McMahon. 


KEITH: What is the— what is like, the most— is there anybody right now that's got like a really over the top gimmick that they really commit to?


ART: Velveteen Dream?


AUSTIN: That's a— Velveteen Dream. Uh huh.


ART: Uh oh. Did I get disconnected?


DRE: No.


AUSTIN: No, you're here. 


KEITH: Nope, you're here.


AUSTIN: We're just quiet. 


DRE: Doing more Wrestlemania research to see if I wanna… 


AUSTIN: Yeah… 


ART: I mean for free on the USA network, you can watch the Andre the Giant memorial battle royal featuring Michael Che and Colin Jost. 


[Austin sighs]


KEITH: Eugh, god.


DRE: I mean I, I will watch Braun Strowman kill them. 


AUSTIN: Yeah.


DRE: I wouldn't be that upset about that.


ART: I mean, they're gonna make you pay for that, I think they're gonna like, cause Braun Strowman to be eliminated in some way, and then he'll spend the rest of the show like, chasing them around backstage? 


DRE: Thing is, if I did it would be just to watch the Kofi match, and… What are the odds they actually give Kofi the belt? 


ART: High.


DRE: Really?


AUSTIN: I think high. Mhm. 


ART: I think there are three big babyface victories they can provide for us tonight, which is Becky, Seth, and Kofi? 


AUSTIN: Mhm.


ART: I think we're gonna get two of those? 


AUSTIN: Think we're gonna get Becky and Kofi?


ART: I think we're gonna get Becky and Kofi.


AUSTIN: Yeah.


KEITH: What is a babyface victory?


DRE: Good guy victory.


ART: When like, a good guy overcomes a like, big plot, yeah.


AUSTIN: [cross] Shaves. 


KEITH: Okay.


AUSTIN: They shave their opponent.


KEITH: 'Cause I was like, Babyface could be the name of one wrestler, Big Babyface also could be the name of one wrestler. [laughs]


AUSTIN: [cross] [laughs] Also the name of a wrestler! 


KEITH: And also, babyface— my, then the other thing was babyface could be a kind of victory, uh, and it was that, um. What else could it have been?


AUSTIN: The musician Babyface.


KEITH: Yeah, could've been the musician Babyface. Could've come in and killed it.


ART: If we do, if we do Worldwide Wrestling again, remember Big Babyface for a character. 


[laughter]


AUSTIN: That's really good! 


KEITH: Oh, it could've been like a team. It could've been like a team of wrestlers.


ART: Yeah.


AUSTIN: Baby and Face.


ART: Big, Big Show and Babyface, the musician.


[laughter]


DRE: Aw, hell yeah! 


KEITH: No, I mean like, don't they have like, you know, there'll be four wrestlers on a team and the team will have a name. Right?


AUSTIN: Mhm!


KEITH: That's a thing? Yeah, and the team could've been called Babyface.


ART: They've weirdly like, gone away from that? It's very strange.


AUSTIN: I kind of hate it, that they've gone away from it?


ART: Like Sasha Banks and Bayley are the Boss and Hug Connection, but on all of their official stuff it's just Sasha Banks and Bayley? Maybe because Boss and Hug Connection is a terrible name.


DRE: [cross] Is terrible? 


ART: But.


KEITH: Boss and Hug?


ART: Yeah, Boss, like, like the end of a video game level.


KEITH: [cross] Yeah.


ART: Hug like embracing someone. 


KEITH: Mhm.


ART: Connection like… the word connection.


KEITH: What is the Boss and Hug Connection?


ART: It's a take on the Rock and Sock Connection, which was the—


AUSTIN: Which rhymes! Which is what made that work!


KEITH: That is a big, that is a stretch. That is a—


DRE: [cross] Yeah.


KEITH: The Boss and Hug Tenuous Connection.


AUSTIN: I— hm.


DRE: But like, are they still— I mean, they still have it where part of Sasha and Bayley's characters are that they're just like, big wrestling nerds? They fuckin' like love wrestling so they'll reference their favorite wrestlers whenever they can? 


ART: Yeah, it's hard times for Sasha Banks right now.


DRE: That sucks. That's a shame.


ART: That character went from like, the Boss to like… 


AUSTIN: A tag team champ?


ART: I love Eddie Guerrero. Is like a big… drop for that. And like—


DRE: Then what's Shinsuke doing in a tag team match? What the fuck is that? 


ART: Um… It's hard to be in the WWE and not speak fluent English, because the owner… is a racist. 


[Austin laughs]


DRE: Okay. 


ART: I mean, Shinsuke and Rusev are delightful together. 


DRE: I mean sure, I believe that because I love both of them. 


ART: You're not gonna get to see a lot of that today…


AUSTIN: Yeah. They're in a tag thing, right? 


DRE: [cross] A fatal fourway.


ART: [cross] Yeah, they're in a four team, yeah, tag team.


AUSTIN: Oh, okay. So yeah.


DRE: Oh god, they also have Ricochet in a tag team?


AUSTIN: Woof.


ART: Ricochet just came up.


DRE: I guess… 


AUSTIN: [cross] Which one's Ricochet?


KEITH: [cross] Is a tag team a thing you don't wanna be in?


ART: It's not as good as being on your own.


KEITH: Okay.


DRE: Ricochet was uh… Puma, right?


AUSTIN: Oh, I see him. Mhm.


ART: Ricochet was Prince Puma. 


DRE: Yeah. 


ART: Ricochet and Aleister Black fought a fuckin'... awesome match on Takeover two days ago? So like, they also might just be like, resting them?


AUSTIN: [cross] Beat? Mhm.


ART: Like, why wouldn't that match be like, I wonder if they're gonna take it easy on Ricochet and Aleister Black, and they did not. 


AUSTIN: What are the big surprise guess— like, guesses for this thing? This card sucks, is the thing I wanna say?


ART: I think it's a decent card. I think, I—


AUSTIN: Is it? This is what decent counts as now? 


ART: Um. 


KEITH: Damn.


ART: I'm willing to—


AUSTIN: [cross] I'm serious! I think that the main event— I don't like Ronda Rousey, obviously, fuck off Ronda Rousey, but like, that's gonna be good.


DRE: [cross] Yeah.


AUSTIN: The Kofi, the Kofi, D. Bry stuff is gonna be good.


ART: Mhm.


AUSTIN: Everything else—


DRE: [cross] Lesnar will be terrible.


AUSTIN: I'm not interested in. 


DRE: Samoa Joe versus Rey Mysterio could be… okay. 


ART: Yeah.


SYLVIA: Hi, I'm back.


AUSTIN: Welcome back.


ART: The—


SYLVIA: And like, no more interruptions on my end, now.


ART: I'd be more excited if I saw— thought Seth Rollins was gonna win for that match, but now I'm thinking Seth Rollins won't win that match?


AUSTIN: Mhm. 


ART: Balor's gonna be the Demon? I'm excited to see the Demon at Wrestlemania. 


AUSTIN: Is this the first time?


ART: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Hm. Okay.


ART: Last year was gay rights, this year is the Demon, next year, gay rights Demon. 


AUSTIN: Why not this year gay rights Demon?


ART: 'Cause they have to establish both things before you can combine them. You have to…


AUSTIN: Gotcha, also 'cause Bobby Lashley is not like… the gay rights angle probably won't work against Bobby Lashley, who I bet is probably a decent person. 


ART: Uh, well, he, he is 0 for one as gay rights Finn Balor, he lost last year as gay rights Balor. 


AUSTIN: Oh, did he? 


ART: Yeah. 


SYLVIA: Right, yeah.


KEITH: Wait, what does gay rights Finn Balor mean?


[laughter]


SYLVIA: Um… He had a t-shirt, but his logo was rainbow? And then he had a buncha gay people from the community in— it was Florida that year, right?


ART: [cross] New Orleans, it was New Orleans.


AUSTIN: [cross] Oh, you mean the gay community?


SYLVIA: The gay community, yeah.


AUSTIN: Uh huh!


SYLVIA: But they just say "The Community" on commentary. Um. [Austin sighs] Yeah. 


AUSTIN: Who was that against?


SYLVIA: It was that…


ART: Seth Rollins and someone, Seth Rollins won.


SYLVIA: [cross] The Miz. The… the Miz, I think it was…


AUSTIN: [cross] And the Miz, they, see, if—


KEITH: That'd be a good wrestling the name, is The Community.


AUSTIN: If they— [laughs] If they had, if it had been against AJ, then I would've… that would've been…


SYLVIA: God.


AUSTIN: Yeah. Uh huh. 


ART: No, they've isolated the shitty people in the AJ, Randy Orton match.


AUSTIN: Yeah. Wait, isn't um, what's his face shitty too? 


ART: Look, there's a lot of shitty people in wrestling.


SYLVIA: [cross] There's so many.


ART: The two loudest shittiest people are in one match.


AUSTIN: I thought Bautista had said some shit?


ART: [cross]  No, Bautista's good.


SYLVIA: [cross] No, Bautista's the opposite.


AUSTIN: Is Bautista actually good? 


SYLVIA: [cross] Yeah, I think—


ART: [cross] Bautista's good. Bautista had gay moms.


SYLVIA: Yeah, I was gonna say, I think Bautista had gay moms. And his...


AUSTIN: [cross] Shoutouts, to his gay moms.


ART: Bautista's always dunking on idiots on twitter. Love him.


AUSTIN: No, I no that, I had thought there was just some shit that…


SYLVIA: I mean he… he's probably said some shit in the past, like every wrestler has. At some point.


AUSTIN: Okay.


SYLVIA: But I don't think he's like, an active bigot, y'know?


AUSTIN: Right, right. That was what I had thought, and I'm glad that that is not the case.


SYLVIA: Yeah.


KEITH: We should get to the game. 


AUSTIN: We should.


KEITH: 'Cause of the hard outs. 


SYLVIA: Right.


AUSTIN: Yes. Alright.


ART: Because it's all about the game and how you play it.


AUSTIN: I hate you. 


SYLVIA: Jesus Christ.


[Dre laughs]


AUSTIN: Alright, so it sounds like, one second, can someone make a note for Craig!


KEITH: [laughs] Yeah, I'll make a note. 


AUSTIN: Thanks. Thanks Craig!


ART: Note for Craig, it's my time. 


[Dre laughs, Sylvia groans]


SYLVIA: My god…


ART: Only got six more Triple H theme songs to reference before we get outta here.


[transition music]


[31:05]


JANINE: You know what's a good word? Widdershins. 


KEITH: [distant from the mic] Whoa, what is that? It sounds like a sor— type of shutter.


JANINE: It's like an old-timey word for counter-clockwise.


AUSTIN: Huh.


KEITH: Counterclock— so... 


AUSTIN: Spell it?


JANINE: So you would say— so—


AUSTIN: Oh, I see it.


JANINE: The example is that, that, you can say, oh you should twist it with the clock or widdershins.


AUSTIN: I like that I typed in widdershins and the first thing I see on this page is that there, the, Terry Pratchett Discworld wiki because that is the most Terry Pratchett thing I've ever heard. 


JANINE: Yeah.


AUSTIN: Widdershins. 


JANINE: It's also very Regency.


AUSTIN: Mhm. 


JANINE: It came up in the books I was reading because… it's really cool, man, I'm so like, torn on those books. But…


AUSTIN: [cross] Uh huh…


JANINE: There's like, the like—


KEITH: Which books?


JANINE: The Glamorous series, it's like Regency? It's like, it's like— Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell, but there's kissing. 


AUSTIN: Is there not kissing in Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell?


JANINE: There's like, I think there's a little bit, but not a lot.


AUSTIN: Are you on the right mic by the way, Janine? You sound so roomy to me. 


KEITH: Yeah, you sound roomy or far away from your mic, maybe?


AUSTIN: Yeah… maybe it's you're far away.


JANINE: Maybe it's too low? What if I raise it up.


AUSTIN: [cross] Yeah, it's, it's… yeah. That's better. 


KEITH: [cross] That's perfect, yeah. Sounds way better. 


JANINE: Alright, that's good to know that my shit's not broken entirely.


AUSTIN: Yeah.


JANINE: But, so, the… in these Glamorous books, there's like this thing that this dude invents called the sphère obscurci, which is like, an obscuring sphere. And it's like a thing, it's like a magic thing where what he does is he twists light around him so it looks like he's invisible. And the trick of this, and the trick that like comes into play when... the Bonaparteists are torturing him to figure out how to do this because it's a Regency book in the continent, um, is that uh, if you twist it, if you twist it clockwise, the interior of the sphere is silver. 


AUSTIN: Hm.


JANINE: because you've twisted the light reflection incorrectly, so you're invisible from the outside, but the inside is like a mirror.


AUSTIN: Huh.


JANINE: If you, I think if you don't twist it at all, the inside of the sphere is black, 'cause again you haven't twisted the light correctly. If you twist it widdershins, then you can see out. So you aren't aware that you're invisible, but to outside onlookers you are.


AUSTIN: But you can see out.


JANINE: Yes.


AUSTIN: So you're not, you don't have that like, assurance that you're invisible, but… can you—?


JANINE: Yeah. Well, I mean you do, as long as you maintain this, this thread.


AUSTIN: Okay.


JANINE: Then you, you are assured that you are invisible. So it's like, this whole thing of like, he teaches the bad people the wrong way to do it, um, so they, they can be invisible but they only see blackness around them, and then like teaches… Duke of Wellington's army to do it the right way. 


[laughter]


AUSTIN: Great… cool.


JANINE: Uh huh. And there's like a whole thing where they like, have to capture it in glass. They had like a glass orb that when the sun hits it does the thing 'cause it's bending the light? It was cool. 


AUSTIN: Sounds cool.


JANINE: I want them to focus on that stuff and not the… things I don't like. That would be nice. Also, weirdly, I… last week, I think, Jack asked me about a word that I had never heard of before.


AUSTIN: Uh huh…


JANINE: And since then it has turned up no less than twelve times in this book. 


AUSTIN: What was the word?


JANINE: Cockade. The like, ribbon. It's like a circle of ribbon that you wear… like, a red white and blue one would be the most familiar one. It's like a circle of ruffled ribbon with a little like, pin that you put on your thing.


AUSTIN: Yeah.


JANINE: Yeah, I don't think I'd ever encountered that word before. 


AUSTIN: And now. Six times. 


JANINE: Yep. Now I'm never gonna forget it. It's my next character name. 


AUSTIN: It's a nice, a nice word. 


KEITH: I got my uh, I got my tickets to Indianapolis, this'll be my first time on a plane in… uh, thirteen years? 


JANINE: Jeez. 


KEITH: Yeah.


ART: Oh, they're terrible.


KEITH: I used to love them, I used to—


ART: [cross] They've gotten worse.


KEITH: I used to fly every year. Yeah, they got worse?


ART: Yeah.


KEITH: Damn. 


AUSTIN: Yeah.


JANINE: Planes are how I discovered that the stuff I put on my face for my skincare regimen really really really burns my eyes. 


AUSTIN: Oh. Uh oh.


JANINE: Like, a lot. To the point that I thought someone had released some kind of eye hurting dust? 


[Keith laughs]


AUSTIN: Janine.


JANINE: [laughs] On the plane? Look, it was a fuckin' transatlantic flight, I was extremely tired, I had not slept the night before, and then my eyes started hurting just so much I could barely open them.


AUSTIN: [cross] Oh, honey… 


KEITH: Is this terrorism? 


JANINE: [laughs] No, I thought maybe someone had like a really dusty suitcase or something, and there was like, some sort of like—


KEITH: [cross] Okay.


JANINE: It was like a very accurate— weird sense.


KEITH: [cross] It wasn't like a malicious release of eye hurting dust.


JANINE: [cross] No!


AUSTIN: [cross] Still so funny to think of it as malicious, it's so funny to be like—


JANINE: I didn't think it was malicious, I just thought like, someone had some shit like, some wood dust or something! I don't know.


KEITH: Right.


JANINE: It was like a handyman who had been sanding a table and then went on a plane and then released the dust from it into my eyes! 'Cause it just hurt so bad and it was like all…


KEITH: So maybe like a travelling irritant salesman. 


JANINE: [laughs] I actually don't mind planes, I just don't like the process of getting on or off them.


AUSTIN: Alright, Ali says to go ahead, no clue when she will be here. 


KEITH: I have a very relaxing relationship with long distance travel.


JANINE: Exactly, like it's just, it's just like time, it's unencumbered time that you just can just… 


AUSTIN: Mhm.


JANINE: You can just do whatever the fuck and like, no one around you even knows who you are.


ART: Oh, but it's so dry and…


DRE: Ugh, yeah.


ART: They treat you bad…


JANINE: Bring water! Why do they treat you bad?


ART: I feel like I'm always being treated badly on airplanes. 


JANINE: Oh.


DRE: Yeah, I'm with Art. 


JANINE: I… 


AUSTIN: I feel like, yeah. I don't know, I'm probably on the more Janine side of it in that like, I like to disappear into a big crowd and just have time that  is just, completely unaccounted for?


ART: [cross] Yeah, that's fair.


AUSTIN: Where no one can make— where there's no expectation on my time? Where no one is allowed to be like… do this thing? 


JANINE: Yeah.


AUSTIN: And that's nice.


DRE: Yeah. 


ART: But the thing they're like— they're like, sit in this room for, sit in this tube for four hours.


AUSTIN: I'm sittin' somewhere anywhere and probably don't like it anyway! Like?


JANINE: [laughs] Yeah.


KEITH: Yeah. 


AUSTIN: I'm already—


KEITH: My— my, the last, the last fourteen years of long distance travel for me has mostly been a four hour bus ride to and from New York. And so— 


AUSTIN: Yeah. Yes, that is also true, yes.


KEITH: And so a two— two and a half hour plane ride from uh, from Providence to Indianapolis is going to be I think, an improvement.


AUSTIN: [cross] Yeah.


ART: [cross] I think it hurts to be—


JANINE: [cross] No one's gonna give you a Coke on the bus. But on the plane they're gonna give you a Coke.


KEITH: No one gives you a Coke on the bus and I've tried.


AUSTIN: It's true. Someone could give you coke on a bus, but not a Coke.


DRE: [cross] Yeah. But not a Coke. 


ART: [cross] It hurts that LAX is the worst airport.


KEITH: [cross] Yeah, you've gotta pay for that. 


AUSTIN: LAX is the worst airport, no one should fly to LAX, I'll be there in two weeks. Um, but the—


ART: We're flying in out of Burbank this time? We found a Burbank flight to Indianapolis.


AUSTIN: Nice, nice.


ART: So psyched.


AUSTIN: I'd like to do Laguardia.


KEITH: [cross] I've never been to the Providence airport, that's where I'm going from.


AUSTIN: Nice. We should start.


ART: Indianapolis airport, A+.


AUSTIN: Yeah?


KEITH: Oh, great. We'll be there. 


ART: [cross] They operate like a Formula 1 car.


AUSTIN: Can we just stay there? 


ART: And not do the show part?


AUSTIN: Yeah. Um, alright. Is Dre back?


DRE: Yeah, I'm here! 


AUSTIN: Alright, I'm gonna publish this post then, and go live. I'm actually gonna leave the call and leave some music while we kick off, that way…


DRE: Do we need to get Craig in here?


ART: [cross] Do we need a clapping? Do we do claps live?


AUSTIN: [cross] Um, well let's wait until I—  let's wait until, yeah we're gonna do claps live. And let's wait until we uh… re… wait until I rejoin to get Craig in. 


ART: Craig hasn't appeared in any material yet, right? We could like… 


JANINE: I don't know…


ART: We could do some good Craig bits.


[Dre laughs]


KEITH: Zraig.


ART: Zraig.


DRE: Please, Zraig.


JANINE: Just bite our own Zraig bits?


ART: Yeah, uh huh.


JANINE: Great plan!


ART: What if we like just tease that we have a new cast member?


KEITH: Named Zraig.


ART: Zraig is the end, save that til the end.


KEITH: And you'll meet him later, in a different episode. 


JANINE: It's like the meanest version of those jokes that every podcast does where they like, talk at their producer but their producer is not miced and is basically chained to a desk in the corner?


ART: [cross] I think it's less mean than that. 


KEITH: [cross] Oh yeah, being mean to producers is classic. 


ART: Zraig has no feelings.


KEITH: We don't know that.


JANINE: We haven't considered that Zraig is actually like a person who's like, listening in on the other end, quietly. 


ART: I haven't  considered that, you're right. 


KEITH: [yawns] I'm feeling very strange today. I'm like, you know when you're tired, but you're also like… wired?


DRE: Mhm?


KEITH: At the same time?


DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: That's how I'm feeling.


DRE: That's, yeah, that's me too. 


KEITH: I had breakfast and I was feeling good, and then I like, a couple hours later I had… a bit of this coffee cake, and as soon as I stared eating it I was like… this coffee cake's making me feel strange. 


[laughter]


DRE: Oh boy. 


KEITH: And it's probably a coincidence, it's probably a coincidence.


DRE: Did you get one of them hippie coffee cakes Keith?


KEITH: No, it was from Cumby's, it was from Cumberland Farms. I don't know how far that extends, I don't know if you guys have Cumberland Farms. 


JANINE: Do a lot of people call it Cumby's?


ART: Great question, Janine.


KEITH: Yeah, everyone calls it Cumby's. [laughter] It's a— it's a gas station, it's a gas station slash like, market.


JANINE: [cross] Okay…


DRE: [cross] Oh. Yeah, we don't have a Cumberland Falls gas station.


KEITH: Farms.


DRE: Cumberland Farms. Okay.


KEITH: Yeah. It's uh…


JANINE: You can't eat a waterfall, Dre! 


KEITH: It's like a 7/11, but, and there's usually also a gas station on it. But worse, it's like a 7/11 but worse. Like, smaller, less stuff. 


DRE: The first line in the Wikipedia article does say "Cumberland Farms, colloquially known as Cumby's," so.


KEITH: Yep.


DRE: There you go.


[Janine groans]


ART: Yeah, I hated it.


KEITH: Oh, it's even in the Wikipedia, see!


JANINE: Yeah, I also hate it.


KEITH: What, you don't like Cumby's? 


JANINE: No… 


DRE: "It operates primarily in New York, New England, and Florida."


KEITH: Huh.


JANINE: That's a spread. 


DRE: Yeah, I mean…


ART: Lot of old northeasterners go to Florida.


DRE: Yup.


KEITH: Oh, do you think that's what it is, all the places that have chains in New England also put a few in Florida to make people feel like they're not actually moving?


ART: Yes, I think that's it.


DRE: Yeah… probably the guy who owned Cumby's, when he went to Florida, was like well I guess I gotta open one down here now.


KEITH: There's probably a lot of places in new England where they just like, take the first few letters and then add "ies." 'Cause there's Dunkin' Donuts, which is Dunkies. 


JANINE: What. 


KEITH: Dunkies?


DRE: [cross] It's just Dunkin' now, please.


ART: [cross] I've never heard Dunkies before.


KEITH: Yeah, Dunkies is very popular. It might even say it on the Wikipedia!


JANINE: [cross] I've never heard Dunkies.


KEITH: I promise that's a thing. There's, I mean this isn't local, but I've known—


JANINE: [defeated] I just realized we call Tim Horton's Timmies, so I can't even, I'm out of this convo, I can't even criticize.


KEITH: [cross] Okay, yeah, there you go!


ART: [cross] But that's a thing you would call someone.


KEITH: A lot of people that I know call McDonald's Mickey D's. I don't know how popular that is. That's the big one.


JANINE: [cross] Oh yeah, my dad does that.


DRE: Yeah. 


KEITH: Yeah, that's a dad thing for sure.


ART: None of these are a Cumby's, I just gotta… refocus this back to…


KEITH: Cumby's and Dunkies I think are the same thing.


DRE: [cross] There's no mention—


JANINE: [cross] Cumby's is ruined because of its proximity to cummies. That's part of the problem.


DRE: Yeah.


KEITH: That's fair.


DRE: There's also no mention of Dunkies on the Dunkin' Donuts Wikipedia page.


KEITH: Okay. Well…


JANINE: The other one sounds fake. 


KEITH: America runs on Dunkies. 


[laughter]


DRE: No, I like calling it Dunkies. 


KEITH: You do or don't


DRE: I do! I like that. 


KEITH: [cross] Yeah, Dunkies is a fun one. 


ART: [cross] I think we should just call Dunkin' Donuts Cumby's. I think— 


DRE: Uh, it's on Urban Dictionary, the top definition for Dunkies is—


JANINE: [cross] Uh oh.


DRE: Slang or abbreviated version of the loved coffee and donut giant, Dunkin' Donuts.


JANINE: Oh. 


KEITH: Yep.


DRE: Uh—


JANINE: [cross] That makes me trust it less. That makes me trust it less.


DRE: [cross] Hm. The second one is the punishment suffered by pirates caught masturbating while on watch, which sounds much more in line with… Urban Dictionary.


JANINE: That seems fake. 


DRE: Well yeah, it's Urban Dictionary, it's all fake.


KEITH: It's Urban Dictionary, it's all fake.


JANINE: Pirates didn't use 'ies' as a thing that they put on words.


DRE: It was 'ey'. 


JANINE: Hmmm. 


KEITH: It's... time for your dunkeys? I just don't get it.


JANINE: I was gonna say "yar, I be giving you a dunkey now," doesn't like— [laughter] it's not— no one ever said that. That's fake. 


KEITH: No, yeah, no one had ever said it, and now they have!


JANINE: Yes, and I'm— I'm an authentic pirate, so now it's true. 


KEITH: Ugh. Now that's a good idea… for a real season and then also maybe we should just become pirates. We could do a pirate season, but also we could just be pirates.


DRE: Yeah. 


JANINE: That sounds like a terrible plan.


DRE: What— I mean… Keith, maybe that's your character for season six, you're just  a pirate.


JANINE: [cross] I can't imagine a group of people who'd be worse pirates. 


ART: My character's gonna be named Cumby. That's my…


DRE: My character's gonna be named Dunkie.


JANINE: [cross] Those are both taken. 


KEITH: [cross] Dunkie and Cumby, the twin pirates.


JANINE: Those are both taken, and it'll confuse people!


DRE: But who are they taken by?


JANINE: They'll think you're— they'll think you're playing, you're playing a famous streamer and Benedict Cumberbatch. 


DRE: Hm.


ART: Is that what his fans are called now?


DRE: Cumbies?


JANINE: I mean now? Yes. 


KEITH: I'm sure they've got some silly name for themselves. 


JANINE: Last time it was…


DRE: Uh, the last one I saw was uh.


KEITH: Benedictines. 


[Keith and Janine laugh]


DRE: No, it was… [sighs] It was Cumberbitches, was the last one I saw going around.


JANINE: [cross] Yeah….


KEITH: [cross] Oh, yeah, yeah… 


JANINE: That's one.


KEITH: You're right, I remember that. Should I open my window… no, not yet.


DRE: Y'all gonna see that, that Avengers? Speaking of Cumberbatch.


ART: [cross] Seen it. 


KEITH: No…


DRE: What'd you think, Art?


JANINE: [cross] I haven't seen any of them.


DRE: I've also seen it.


KEITH: I also haven't seen any of them.


ART: It was— It was good. I liked it. I think, I think it's a little— I don't think it's as good as all that, but I think it's great, I think it's a fine movie, an enjoyable three hours in the cinema.


DRE: Yeah. No, yeah. 


KEITH: So I watched um. I watched the Tick on Amazon Prime. 


ART: Same thing here.


KEITH: And that I thought was really excellent. And it made me want to go back and watch—


DRE: [cross] Oh, twenty seconds.


KEITH: Okay. Well… that's fine.


ART: Just say it, real quick, what're you gonna watch?


JANINE: Tickies.


KEITH: It made me wanna go back— go back and watch all fo the Marvel movies that I missed, which is like twenty of them.


DRE: Oof.


ART: Alright. 


KEITH: Despite that I won't like them as much. 


[outro music]