Clapcast 44: Two Conversations about Cat Poop (April 2021 + POSTCARD ANNOUNCEMENT!))
Transcriber: robotchangeling


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Keith: Now, how about Tylenol Pepsi?


Jack: [emphatically] Nope. [Sylvia and Keith laugh] 


Janine: I think that’s Brio. [Austin laughs] I think that gets you around to Brio. I bet the coffee Coke thing is going to fall on like people who have a taste for Brio and people who do not have a taste for Brio, ‘cause I could imagine it adding a bitterness that, to me, Brio tastes like something you flush an engine with.


Keith: I've never heard of Brio. What is Brio?


Art: Yeah, great question. [Austin chuckles] 


Janine: It's like an Italian cola, I think?


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: Like, it's...the best place to reliably find it is like pizzerias and stuff, in my experience.


Keith: Okay.


Austin: Yeah, you can get it at Italian places in general. 


Art: Mmm.


Austin: Yeah, I don't like it. 


Keith: Is it like Moxie?


Art: Have you done this in America, Austin? 


Austin: I have never had Moxie. Yeah. You know who liked it, Art?


Keith: Uh, is it Art’s mom's friend? 


Austin: No. Neither of those people. [Sylvia laughs] 


Art: Um…


Austin: It is someone who Art and I used to live with, though. 


Art: Does [bleep] like it?


Austin: [bleep] likes it.


Keith: That’s a good guess. I don't know who that is or why you’d guess [bleep], but.


Sylvia: Classic [bleep]. 


Austin: Mm-hmm. [laughter] 


Keith: Yeah, [bleep] really reads as someone who would like Brio. [Sylvia laughs] 


Art: [bleep] might be the most…


Austin: Person? 


Art: Yeah, like…


Austin: Uh huh. [Sylvia and Keith laugh] 


Art: But he’s...


Sylvia: That’s a great way to describe someone.


Art: For someone named [bleep], he’s very straight laced, you know?


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Art: He's perhaps like the furthest normie.


Austin: He doesn't like music is a thing. 


Art: Doesn't like music. 


Austin: He doesn't like it, yeah. 


Sylvia: [laughs in surprise] What?


Austin: He thinks it’s—


Janine: I remember hearing about this.


Keith: What does that mean?


Sylvia: What?


Austin: He likes it when it’s used in things, but he doesn't like it...and maybe this has changed. It's been a decade since I lived with this guy. But he doesn't...I guess longer now, Jesus Christ.


Art: A lot of people develop a taste for music in their 30s. [Janine and Keith laugh] 


Austin: It happens. We got that letter recently about this, right? The…


Keith: Did we?


Austin: Yeah, you weren't on it. I don't think I ever would have picked this if you were on that Tips. It was someone who said basically like, how do you find music— maybe you were on it. How do you find music?


Keith: Oh, I was on that. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Austin: Okay.


Keith: Yeah, I was on that. And I was very normal about it! 


Austin: Yeah, you were very normal about it. Uh huh. [Sylvia laughs] But you understand what I mean, though. [laughs] 


Keith: Yeah, I understand what you mean. 


Austin: But yeah, [bleep] is someone who's like, “I like it when people use music well in things like movies, TV shows, and games. But I'm not gonna listen to it by itself.”


Sylvia: [laughs] That’s so funny. I'm sorry.


Keith: Right. It's a condiment.


Austin: It's very— yeah, uh huh. Yeah, it's a condiment. It's a content condiment. 


Art: How is he? Do you see him around? 


Austin: Never in my life. [Sylvia laughs] 


Art: Wow. 


Austin: I moved. Well, I mean, the truth is like I left, we stopped living together a year after I moved in with him, and I didn't see him much that year. You know what I mean? I still lived in New York, and then I left New York, and that was that. He's not on the internet. You know what I mean?


Art: Yeah, he is not on the internet.


Keith: Right. Why would you be on the internet if you didn't like music? 


Austin: There’s too much music on the internet.


Keith: It’s almost all that's on there.


Austin: Uh huh.


Art: I mean, maybe he's right, though.


Austin: I guess I haven’t checked. No, he’s definitely right. 


Art: No internet, no music. I might take that trade.


Austin: Mm-hmm. Last I heard he was...I mean, last I heard is, again, when I knew him, but he was like working with the same company as his dad or whatever, right, and making good money. And that's the last I heard, and I don't know.


Art: I guess I've seen him more recently than you but still probably like eight years ago, ‘cause I saw...I saw Jerry after Jerry got fixed up.


Austin: How’s— is Jerry— Jerry’s probably... 


Keith: [pretending to understand] Oh, he got fixed up? [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: Jerry...whew. 


Art: Jerry got fixed up. 


Austin: Yeah, you know what? I thought about the highs and lows of Jerry. [laughs] I think I'm high on Jerry overall, Art. [Keith laughs] 


Art: Jerry's great. Nothing that was wrong with Jerry was Jerry's fault.


Jack: Who’s Jerry? 


Austin: Jerry's butt was a little bit of a problem. But that wasn’t Jerry’s fault. [laughter]


Art: Jerry’s butt was a huge problem. But the doctors, I'm telling you, the doctors fixed it. 


Keith: Jerry, your ass is killing you. [Sylvia continues laughing]


Austin: That time that Jerry shat on [bleep 2]’s pillow and [bleep 2] didn't realize it until he laid down. [laughs] 


Keith: Wait, is this a cat?!


Austin: Was all time best night of my life. [Sylvia and Jack laugh] 


Keith: This is a cat, right? I think I know this. Is this a cat? 


Austin: This is a cat.


Keith: Or is this a person? Okay.


Austin: [laughs] A cat. 


Sylvia: Okay. [laughs] 


Keith: Yeah, I know about this cat.


Art: Jerry might have been a fantastic judge of character. 


Austin: Uh huh. Never did that in my room. 


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: Loved me. Shit. [Sylvia laughs] 


Art: But when I saw Jerry last, his butt had been fixed, and he was a much happier cat.


Sylvia: Good for him. [laughs] 


Jack: Yeah, good to hear. It's encouraging.


Janine: We can all aspire towards it.


[transition — 0:04:50]


Austin: That's what they’re called, apparently. Unfortunately, we're stuck with it.


Janine: It’s hamburger and waffle, right? Those are the two? 


Austin: Yeah. Waffle’s like the nine.


Keith: What’s— 


Austin: The little nine dots. 


Keith: Oh. 


Janine: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Like if you ever see like a…


Keith: Yeah, I've seen that.


Janine: Like the waffle.


Austin: Like the waffle. It’s so stupid.


Keith: And the distinction that it brings up, it brings up multiple rows of items instead of just a list?


Austin:  I think that's correct. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A hamburger’s a list. A waffle is like a tile set.


Keith: Yeah, I guess I just don't care that that is distinct. [Janine laughs] 


Austin: I only had to talk— I only learned about it when we were doing, when we were launching Waypoint, and then they changed us from waffle to hamburger, so I had to learn about that.


Keith: I know about hamburger from like watching like cell phone reviews.


Austin: Sure, yeah.


Keith: And they'll say like, “And you got your hamburger menu,” or whatever—


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Keith: —when they're looking at different things.


Austin: Mm-hmm. 


Keith: I never heard waffle, but I know that I've seen the dots before. I just wouldn’t have…


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Keith: Just called that a menu button. I don't know. 


Austin: Fair. 


Keith: I guess there's...I guess there's people out there that really think that doing— having those icons and using those words are important. And I guess that's great, for them.


Austin: Uh huh. [Keith laughs] 


Keith: [to cat] Bye, Cricket. Go.


Austin: All right. Time.is? 


Janine: Mm-hmm. 


Austin: Let me get my backup going. Buh buh buh buh buh. All right.


Janine: I gotta say, Fruit by the Foot is not a good pre-podcast snack at all. [laughs] 


Austin: Lotta mouth—


Janine: Terrible.


Austin: Lotta mouth noises?


Janine: Mm-hmm.


Keith: Mmm.


Austin: Lotta that stickiness? 


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: Like, there’s a lot of it there, and it’s hard to get rid of it.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Keith: It's a great snack, though. 


Austin: Mm-hmm. 


Keith: I was— 


Janine: Yeah, it was just a mistake. I learned my lesson. I learned my lesson. [Austin laughs] 


Keith: My mom would never buy any of that stuff when I was a kid. I never got any gummy snacks. I always had the worst lunchbox at school. It was just full of total garbage like...like a bag of fruit and a weird moist tuna fish sandwich. 


Austin: And you...


Keith: So now I can buy whatever I want. 


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Keith: I tend to not anyway. [Art laughs] But it does feel nice that I could buy Gushers if I wanted. [Janine and Austin laugh] 


Austin: All right.


Janine: Gushers are bad. Don't waste your money on Gushers. What time? 15?


Austin: 15. 15.


Janine: Let’s do 15.


[they clap]


Keith: I like Gushers.


Janine: They got no gush. They were better when we were kids. 


Keith: They do—


Janine: They’re gushless.


Keith: They do have less gush than you want. 


Austin: Smaller mouths.


Keith: I think they actually have less gush.


Janine: It’s just a gummy candy that's wet inside. 


Austin: That’s all right. 


Janine: And I don't need it. 


Austin: I don’t mind that.


Janine: I don’t want that or need it. [laughs] 


Keith: I do like the flavor, though. I really like the flavor of the strawberry ones.


Janine: Ugh. 


Keith: And it has some tooth to it, like— 


Janine: Do you like strawberry licorice? Like Twizzlers? 


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: Okay. 


Keith: Yeah. 


Janine: That makes sense that you like the strawberry Gushers, then.


Keith: Yeah. I mean, I would even say that strawberry licorice is better than...it's a better flavor.


Janine: Yeah.


Keith: I like it more than a Gusher, usually.


Janine: And it's not wet inside. 


Keith: And it's not wet— eh, but I like the wet inside. ‘Cause that's actually a problem with Twizzlers is they're a little dry.


[transition — 0:08:20]


Sylvia: Hello, I'm back.


Austin: Welcome back.


Jack: Hi. 


Sylvia: [softly] Oh no. Hmm. 


Dre: Hi. 


Sylvia: I just checked— I checked the Raptors score. [laughs] 


Dre: Uh oh.


Austin: Not great?


Sylvia: That was what that was about. They're losing, but they're losing to Philadelphia. 


Austin: Mmm.


Sylvia: And that's like not a bad team to lose to this year. 


Austin: No.


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: I just am like…


Austin: Yeah.


Sylvia: There’s pride in me, because we always beat them. [Austin laughs] And now we're not as good.


Austin: Yeah. [Sylvia and Jack laugh] 


Dre: Is Lowry still out? 


Sylvia: Yeah, he's still out.


Dre: Okay.


Sylvia: Though, like, the thing...this is, again, a take I would never say on Twitter, because the Raptors fans would tear me apart. But with the way Fred's been playing, I think we're fine without him for a bit longer. [laughs softly] 


Dre: Yeah. 


Sylvia: It’ll be our season.


Dre: I feel like in a lot of the NBA podcasts and like Twitter feeds and stuff I follow, people have been kind of throwing around the idea that maybe the Raptors try to ship Lowry to like a better contender or something. 


Sylvia: Yeah. I wouldn't be sad— like, too upset about it, because like, I’ve already kind of come to terms with the fact that it's his last season here. 


Dre: Yeah.


Sylvia: Like, probably. And like, I would rather him go win another title somewhere. 


Austin: Yeah.


Sylvia: ‘Cause he's like my favorite. [laughs softly] Than like, just stuck here while we're trying to figure out like our new generation of guys.


Dre: Right. Now that Giannis is not coming, what do we do? 


Sylvia: Yeah. Though, like, I watched the Raptors beat them like back to back last week, and maybe we dodged a bullet there. [laughs softly] 


Dre: Yeah, Giannis seems to really like shooting threes now, and he's terrible at that, so.


Sylvia: Oh my god. One of the like local shows I was listening to like covered one of those games. It was like, there's a moment in every game with Giannis where he's like, “Well, someone on this team has to score. It might as well be me,” and he does like a mid range like turnaround jumper.


Austin: Uh huh.


Sylvia: And always bricks it. 


Dre: Yep. Uh huh.


Sylvia: And it's the saddest thing but it's also like, [sucks air through teeth] ooh. 


Austin: Shooters shoot, you know?


Dre: Yeah.


Sylvia: Yeah, shooters shoot. Look, he and Kobe were close before, you know, Kobe passed. [Dre laughs] So it makes sense.


Dre: There was a really interesting video I watched like going down a YouTube hole one day, where a guy did like a video comparing like how Giannis's jump shot has changed over time, and apparently how it's gotten—


Sylvia: Mm-hmm.


Dre: —like, worse and worse every year as he's gotten more NBA coaching.


Sylvia: [sighs] That's such a bummer. 


Dre: Yeah. 


Sylvia: It's, ugh.


Dre: But like, yeah—


Sylvia: I mean, like, you know.


Dre: His mechanics have gotten just worse the longer he’s been...yeah.


Sylvia: It makes sense, though, ‘cause like his free throws have been like…


Dre: Yeah.


Sylvia: Like, I only know this ‘cause people won't shut up about it, [Dre laughs] because they've gone down so much, like.


Dre: Yep.


Sylvia: Like, steadily every year. It's really...it's upsetting, ‘cause like, there was a moment where everyone was like, this guy is Lebron’s like successor or whatever. And is like the best player in the league. And now it's like, he's kind of limited.


Dre: Yeah. He's still young, though. Like...


Sylvia: Oh, for sure. Like, I...it's one of those things where it's like, he is probably going to win a championship some point. 


Dre: Yeah.


Sylvia: At some point in his career, just based on like, the fact that he is so like good at what he's already good at. 


Dre: Yeah.


Sylvia: It just seems to be a big problem of people trying to get him to be good at the stuff that he is really not good at. 


Dre: Right.


Sylvia: Which I've learned from playing to 2K MyGM mode. 


Dre: Mm-hmm. [Austin and Dre laugh softly]


Sylvia: You don’t want to try and make your non-shooting players into shooters—


Austin: Yeah.


Sylvia: Because then they're gonna be bad at everything.


Jack: What happens if you make ‘em all shooters?


Sylvia: Then I win the championship.


Austin: Yeah. That was the...


Dre: Right, yeah. That’s the Golden State Warriors.


Sylvia: That’s how video games work. [Dre and Jack laugh] 


Austin: I was gonna say, that’s the Golden State Warriors from...yeah, in the mid 2010s, right? That's it.


Dre: And it's kind of the Jazz this year. Everybody on the Jazz shoots.


Sylvia: The Brooklyn Nets, also.


Austin: True.


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: Most teams, actually. Also the Raptors a little bit.


Austin: Yeah. Yeah. Why not try to capture that energy, right? Like…


Dre: Right. 


Sylvia: Yeah. 


Jack: Like a style of play that is very...


Sylvia: Well, yeah. This is kind of the whole...


Jack: Everyone’s trying it. 


Dre: Uh huh.


Sylvia: There’s like a big push towards like, um...like analytics-friendly shots, which is like three points and stuff right at the basket. And so like, it just sort of slowly progressed to a point where like, yeah, everybody's shooting. 


Dre: Yeah.


Sylvia: Just like an ungodly number of threes.


Dre: Yeah, ‘cause like, 10 years ago, you very much had most teams being like, [mocking] “That's not real NBA basketball. [Jack laughs] You gotta grind it out with the big man, brr-brr-brr.” But now, like Sylvi said, like almost nobody plays that style anymore. It's all about pace and space and shooting threes.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Dre: And getting as many possessions as possible.


Austin: Well, I'm curious how long it lasts. I'm always curious, like, when you see a trend like that.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: That's like, this is gonna define a decade of the game and then some. What's the meta? 


Dre: Right.


Austin: You know, how's the meta gonna change?


Sylvia: It is very interesting watching it sort of shift now, actually, because people have been noting that like bigger guys are—


Austin: Mmm.


Sylvia: —kind of coming back as the more important part of the team, when it was like smaller wings and stuff.


Austin: Right, for the last few years.


Sylvia: Like, with like, Embiid 13:39 is like the big one. 


Austin: Sure.


Dre: Yeah.


Sylvia: And then like Jokić and like Anthony Davis. So yeah, that's one of the cool things about what...that I've been like enjoying about watching lately is how that’s sort of been swinging a little bit back now.


Austin: Yeah. 


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: All right, are we ready to come back?


Dre: Mm-hmm. 


Austin: I think so. All right. [to audience] All right, we are back. Well, that's not what we do with this. I'm just— we're just gonna come back through. So let me just go… [Dre and Jack laugh] Let me do another different throw.


[transition — 0:14:10]


Jack: Austin, remember when you were like—


Keith: Yeah.


Jack: “I'm gonna get a Zipcar to go see Jack, because I haven't driven in ages, and it'll be convenient,” and it sucked. [laughs softly] 


Austin: When was that? What was...when was that? 


Jack: We were in New York, and we were meeting up in some different bit of New York or whatever.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: And you came out of your apartment and just found that there was a Zipcar in front of your apartment, and you were like, “You know what? I'll drive.”


Austin: I'm just gonna drive. Yeah.


Jack: And then you were punished by god. [Dre laughs] 


Keith: What happened?


Austin: I don't remember what happened. I just couldn't find a parking spot? Or it was hell to drive?


Jack: You took fucking forever. [laughs] 


Austin: Mmm. Mm-hmm.


Jack: And I don't think it was for want of trying. [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: Mm-hmm. That sounds right. The...driving sucks. I miss it. 


Keith: It's...I love driving—


Austin: Me too.


Keith: —but it does suck.


Dre: Yeah.


Keith: It is really hard to park in New York.


Austin: It’s really hard to park. It is.


Keith: I don't know if anyone's ever noticed that or what. [Sylvia laughs] 


Jack: Must have been (??? 15:03) [laughs] 


Dre: Mmm.


Austin: You guys hear about this?


Jack: Keith’s writing the next...Keith’s writing the Seinfeld revival.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: Yeah.


Keith: Mm-hmm.


Jack: Which is a show that I would pay so much money to watch.


Austin: Oh. Me too.


Keith: Teen Seinfeld, HBO.


Jack: Keith gets to cast whoever he wants.


Austin: I would love this. This sounds great.


Keith: Blank check, new Seinfeld. Seinfeld’s not in it.


Austin: It's a Blank Check and a Seinfeld sequel? Incredible.


Keith: Yeah. [Keith and Jack laugh] The kid who...the kid who was in Blank Check is now the new Seinfeld.


Dre: And he plays the new Seinfeld. Yeah, exactly. [laughs] 


Austin: He’s the new Seinfeld. 


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: New Seinfeld. That’s the character’s name.


Jack: Like Young Sheldon.


Austin: New Seinfeld. Yeah.


Dre: And the, uh…


Keith: What would Seinfeld be like if he... 


Dre: The CIA lady is Elaine.


Austin: Yep. Mm-hmm.


Keith: [laughs] What would Seinfeld be like if he went through what the blank check kid went through?


Austin: Weirdly, just like Seinfeld. [laughs] 


Keith: Just like Seinfeld, yeah. 


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: Seinfeld does act a lot like a kid that got a blank check. 


Austin: A hundred percent. That's also the... 


Keith: I should be annoying and buy cars all day. 


Austin: [laughs] Yep! Ah. Just like Seinfeld.


Jack: That guy buy a lot of cars?


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: Does Seinf— yeah, he has a show about it.


Keith: He has a show about being annoying about that. 


Jack: What show’s that? 


Austin: Comedians in Cars.


Keith: Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee. It’s miserable.


Jack: That show is about him buying cars? What the fuck?


Keith: No, it’s...well, he’s...


Austin: No, it’s about cars he already bought. 


Keith: Yeah. 


Dre: Mmm. 


Keith: It's like him talking about his awesome car that he owns and then being annoying about comedy with another comedian who's probably…


Sylvia: Annoying about comedy? 


Keith: Yeah. Well, indifferent. Yeah. 


Jack: Oh, god.


Keith: Sometimes it seems like they don't want to be there, but…


Austin: In 2016— 


Dre: There has to be an episode with Jay Leno, and that has to be the most insufferable car talk episode of all time.


Austin: Oh, fuck.


Sylvia: Ugh, god.


Austin: Ugh. Ugh. Apparently, his garage is worth $1.4 million. Not the cars in the— 


Keith: The building itself?


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. In 2016, he auctioned off $22 million in cars. And like, still has a huge, you know, collection.


Dre: Jesus.


Sylvia: Fuck off. Fuck Seinfeld.


Keith: I don’t like to yuck anyone's yum, but that's got to be the most empty life in the world. 


Austin: Yeah. [Sylvia laughs] 


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: One of his cars is worth $2.9 million.


Jack: What— is it a good car? Does it even look good?


Austin: Let's see here. It's this Porsche RSK Spyder. Yeah, it's kind of cool, but it's not...you can't do anything in it. 


Dre: Right. 


Austin: What are you gonna fucking do with this? 


Jack: Donuts. [laughs softly] 


Austin: It's cool looking. Again, I'm not saying that this is not a cool looking car. It is.


Dre: Yeah, but like—


Austin: Sure.


Dre: Where are you gonna do donuts in New York City? [laughs] 


Jack: Holy shit.


Austin: Well, he doesn’t live in…


Jack: That car does look pretty cool.


Austin: Yeah. He doesn't live in New York anymore. 


Keith: Yeah. 


Dre: Oh, right.


Jack: LA, probably, right?


Austin: He lives in LA, yeah.


Dre: Okay.


Keith: I won't pretend that the most expensive cars you could possibly imagine aren't also cool. 


Jack: Ha!


Austin: Right.


Keith: Just that if you have so much money that that's like the thing that you want to do with your life, just seems extremely boring to me.


Jack: Yeah.


Sylvia: Yeah, and the thing I...my problem is like, imagine owning this car and not immediately making it look like Speed Racer’s car. 


Austin: Good call.


Dre: Right. Yeah.


Sylvia: You know? 


Jack: And if you haven’t done that... 


Sylvia: You have to paint it that way. 


Keith: And the flip— 


Sylvia: You're not enjoying it properly, if you haven't done that.


Jack: Yeah.


Keith: The important flip side of it is that he also doesn't just quietly enjoy his cars. 


Austin: Right.


Keith: He's just a...he’s just super annoying about them.


Austin: Yeah, exactly. Exactly. 


Jack: This (??? 18:16) is why...


Dre: How hard do you think Seinfeld tried to get on Top Gear?


Austin: Has he not been? 


Dre: That's a good question. Let me google that. 


Keith: Yeah, maybe he has been.


Sylvia: Ugh. I can’t fucking...


Dre: I hope he's only been on the American Top Gear.


Sylvia: I hate Top Gear so fucking much.


Jack: Yeah, Top Gear sucks.


Austin: I found a tweet from Jerry Seinfeld to Jeremy Clarkson from 2013. 


Jack: Oh, you mean the man puncher? Man puncher, Jeremy Clarkson?


Austin: That sounds right. I know he's a piece of shit. 


Jack: He punched a man. [Austin laughs] 


Keith: I won't— hey, it's, you know. Jeremy Clark is a piece of shit, but sometimes you gotta punch somebody.


Jack: Oh, yeah.


Keith: He’s probably the one that’s in the wrong, though.


Jack: He just punched a service worker, I think. 


Austin: Oh.


Keith: Yeah, that's…


Austin: Get fucked.


Keith: See, that's the wrong way to do it. 


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: You should punch— the people you should punch are the ones who are punching service workers.


Austin: Mmm.


Jack: Yeah, that's true. That’s a classic line from New Seinfeld. [Austin laughs] 


Dre: It doesn't appear that Seinfeld has been on Top Gear.


Austin: Yeah. But he has said it in a Reddit AMA he wants to go on Top Gear.


Keith: Can’t get everything you want. 


Dre: Yeah, I guess...yeah.


Austin: He said in an AMA he wants to go on Top Gear in a reasonably priced car.


Dre: That's one of their— that was one of their segments. 


Austin: I see.


Dre: It's called Star in a Reasonably Priced Car, and they had the celebrities like run a race course and see who can drive it the fastest.


Austin: A very funny thing is someone said...so, Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee is supported by quote unquote, Acura, and someone asked him, “Finally, Acura, since CICGC is supported by them. Have you or would you ever own one?” And Seinfeld said, “I've never had an Acura, but I would own an Acura, and without Acura, there would be no Comedians in Cars show. They have been absolutely enabling us to continue doing it.” You would not own an Acura, otherwise you would own an Acura.


Keith: You would own an Acura. 


Dre: Right, yeah, you could.


Austin: You have— you're a billionaire, almost. So.


Keith: Honestly, it's weird that you don't have one just to say, “Yeah, of course I have one.” 


Austin: Right!


Dre: Or they— I'm surprised they didn’t just give him one.


Austin: Right, just get a...right!


Keith: He's got probably a billion dollars worth of cars. Like, surely at some point you go, “Shouldn't I just get every brand?”


Austin: Let's get one of everything. 


Keith: One of every brand.


Austin: What’s the nice on? What’s the one here I like? Fuck off. Eat shit.


Jack: Me in a shop in Skyrim realizing that I can buy everything the person owns: “I'll just take it!”


Austin: [laughs] I'll just take it! I'll just take it. I gave them this diamond, and they’re gonna give me their (??? 20:30)


Keith: I can't carry it, but I can buy it. [Jack laughs] 


Austin: Yeah. It's mine now. All right.


Keith: Which is true anytime you buy a car, also.


Austin: Can we do a...can we do a three two one clap? 


Sylvia: Sure. 


Jack: Yeah, let’s do it. 


Keith: Yeah.


Dre: Sure. 


Austin: Three, two, one.


[they clap]


[transition — 0:20:45]


Art: Hold on. [away from mic] She just went out, so if she was telling you she wants to go out, she's lying. [Austin chuckles] 


Jess: [distantly] But she’s telling the truth. She does want to. 


Art: Yeah, I guess that's true. [Jess laughs] She does want to go out, but she's just trying to sneak behind to cat poop paradise. 


Jess: Yeah.


Janine: Ew. 


Austin: Excuse me? [Janine laughs] 


Janine: Is that also...is that a domain?


Art: So we have…


Austin: Yeah.


Art: We have a yard. 


Austin: Yeah.


Art: And it’s not a fully enclosed yard. If you go to the side of the house, you can go all the way around, and on the other side, there isn't a fence.


Austin: Hmm.


Art: So, more than once, Mabel has just gotten clear out. And behind the house, it's clear that someone's outdoor cat hangs out back there. And a fun thing about dogs is they will just eat cat poop.


Austin: Ugh.


Art: Cats have less efficient digestive systems than dogs, so there's like…


Austin: Mmm. Mm-hmm.


Art: There's still like food for dogs in cat poop, so.


Janine: Won’t dogs also eat dog poop?


Art: I don't know. My dog won't eat dog poop, but she'll fucking go to town on some cat poop.


Janine: Mabel has standards.


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Good job, Mabel.


Art: So we have to like watch her, ‘cause she'll go back there, and then she smells bad forever. And again, twice, she just clear got out. 


Jess: She just escaped.


Art: She just...was just standing on the other side of the fence, one time just menacing someone delivering Target to us. [laughs softly] 


Austin: God. 


Art: We thought she was upstairs barking, so we're like, “Mabel, stop it!” Then we like looked out the window. It's like, oh, Mabels out there with the delivery person, barking at them. [Austin laughs] 


[Sangfielle-themed end music plays]