Clapcast 38: Broccoli Tweets (October 2020 + Good Society Announcement!)
Transcriber: Katie D @KatieDiek


[ALI laughs] 
 
KEITH: Yeah,
 
JANINE: So it seems like that setting is set.
 
[ALI laughs]
 
KEITH: Yeah,
 
ALI: Here we are. Okay, now we're gonna make this post.
 
KEITH: It's tough because the stream is coming from my end, but the YouTube is coming from Ali's end.
 
ALI: Yes....
 
JANINE: Yeah, it's tricky.
 
KEITH: We don't we don't need a backup, right? We're all recording separately for these?
 
ALI: Yeah, we should be fine. Yeah,
 
JANINE: YouTube's also saving this as it go so.
 
KEITH: So many versions of this recording.
 
[ALI laughs]
 
JANINE: The backup... archive archive archive.
 
KEITH: So many versions.
 
ALI: Should have been posted to the right.
 
KEITH: Stream just came alive for me. I just got it.
 
ALI: Yeah. Okay, cool. Perfect. We're doing it.
 
KEITH: Five waiting. Two watching. There we go. It just, it just flipped over.
 
JANINE: Sorry, I opened up in three other tabs. So...
 
ALI: [laughs] Well, I just, I just posted it on Patreon. We're about to do ourselves a little tweet over here.
 
JANINE: Nice.
 
ALI: [singing as she tweets] Silly. That's me answering your questions.... [laughs] Live tweeting. It's always you know, very exciting. I mean, I need the link in this tweet.
 
SYLVI: A new podcast, where just read our tweets out as we make them.
 
JANINE (overlapping): a tweet cast...
 
KEITH: [laughing] That's, that's a that's been a Run Button stable for a very long time. Oh, yeah, starting a stream and then being like, "oh, did we tweet about this?" And then "no" and then "Okay, let's tweet about it now." [Ali chuckles] And then I sort of mutter out loud, while I make a tweet.
 
ALI: Wonderful. Um, okay. There was one thing that I didn't do while prepping for this. And it was remembering the thing that Austin says...
 
KEITH: I saw that it was wrong and already fixed it for you.
 
ALI: Wait, what do you mean?
 
KEITH: It was in the little bottom area, I saw that it was wrong, and I fixed.
 
ALI: [laughs] Thank you so much. It's always wrong down there. [Keith laughs] It may not always be wrong. The thing that I did was like I remade old PowerPoint that Austin made from like, July, and then took all the questions out and put tonight's questions in.
 
KEITH: I - what I did was I went to the one from last month, which I knew had it right because I was there and grabbed it, pasted it.
 
ALI: [chuckles] I really appreciate that. Thank you.
 
KEITH: You're Welcome.
 
ALI: Okay, I retweeted this. We've made the tweet. We have some people in chat. Y'all ready?
 
KEITH: I always forget to retweet it when I'm when I'm doing a Tips.
 
ALI: [laughs] Well, you're focused on the -
 
SYLVI (overlapping): you're trying to think of - yeah, yeah, you're thinking of advice right now.
 
KEITH: Yeah, you have to- I have to clear my mind for the advice or I'll just say total shit.
 
[Ali laughs]
 
SYLVI: Yeah. You'll say just, you'll tell people to do awful things.
 
KEITH: There's - yeah, there's no room to give advice and retweet up there.
 
SYLVI: Yeah.
 
[Musical interlude 3:16]
 
JACK: Get the bald man to his, his reward.
 
[JANINE laughs]
 
KEITH: That's Hitman: Get the bald man to his reward.
 
JACK: Yeah, his ultimate reward to it.
 
KEITH: Which part do you think is the reward?
 
JACK: It's when he climbs into a car or a Jeep or a truck or a plane or disappears into a party.
 
KEITH: Okay.
 
JACK: He loves that more than anything else.
 
JANINE: Mhmmm...
 
JACK: This is my fan theory that the thing 47 loves the most -
 
KEITH (overlapping): - is escaping
 
JACK:  finish - yeah [JACK and KEITH laugh]
 
JANINE: He just loves to drive away in some delivery trucks and stuff.
 
JACK: Uh huh. And the music does that thing, that he loves that bit too. [laughing]
 
JANINE: Mhmm. He's got his air pods in so he can hear it.
 
JACK: "Oh, no. 47 he's, he's wearing air pods, he can't hear us."
 
[JANINE chuckles]
 
JACK: It's tough, right? Because the camera size doesn't change. Which means that you know, you just see the dogs like legs.
 
DRE: Mhmm. Yeah.
 
JACK: It's such a shame in Skyrim that the camera doesn't move when you scale the protagonist.
 
JANINE: What?
 
JACK: If you make your character and Skyrim really, really gigantic using the terminal. The camera doesn't - [Interupting] What? you can - you did that?
 
AUSTIN: The camera just goes higher, is what you're saying?
 
JACK: The camera doesn't move at all. So you just you just look at ankles -
 
AUSTIN: - or the chest or the knees.
 
[The group laughs] 
 
AUSTIN: I thought what you were saying was it grows, it goes UP, but it doesn't get bigger so that you're still seeing the world as if you're just flying around but a human size?
 
ALI: Hmmm...
 
JACK: No, no,
 
AUSTIN: No, which is not how a giant would see the world
 
DRE: Can you manually reset the camera in the world?
 
JACK: Not as far as I know.
 
AUSTIN: That's weird.
 
JACK: I think the camera is a separate entity that just travels around behind the player that you can't-
 
AUSTIN: Hmm,
 
DRE:  Hmm,
 
JACK: I don't know, I don't know how Skyrim works.
 
AUSTIN: [playing the part] I never I've never written a mod before, "I could figure this out. Give me, give me a weekend. I'll figure it out."
 
[The group laughs] 
 
JANINE: I like, looked at it briefly. Like very, very briefly.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah, I bet it's hard.
 
JANINE: It's the first that had, like job openings or something? 


JACK: Mean, right?
 
AUSTIN: Oh, sure.
 
JANINE: And it was like, "hey, if you've used our mod tools. That's good. That's a good thing."
 
DRE: Mhmm.
 
JANINE: And I was like, "I bet I could learn that" and then I was like, "actually, I don't really want to"
 
[SYLVI laughs]
 
DRE: Fair.
 
AUSTIN: That seems like a lot of work.
 
JACK: I just saw some images of Fidel Castro tobogganing on my, on my TL, which is great.
 
DRE: Oh?!
 
JACK: He's having a great time.
 
ALI: Wait, what?
 
JACK: Fidel Castro.
 
AUSTIN: Where? In a toboggan?
 
DRE: Just doing some sledding?
 
JACK: Yeah.
 
ART: Does it does it snow there?
 
JACK: No, he's a Newfoundland.
 
AUSTIN: Wow. Okay. Yeah, sure.
 
SYLVI: Oh, yeah.
 
JACK: Look at him!
 
SYLVI: Oh, yeah. Totally around the time that he was fathering Justin Trudeau.
 
JANINE: Oh.
 
DRE: [laughing] Oh.
 
SYLVI: My favorite conspiracy theory.
 
JACK: It's a good one.
 
AUSTIN: It's a good
 
DRE: Wait - who? What?
 
AUSTIN: Oh, you don't know this conspiracy theory? Oh,
 
KEITH: I've also never heard this.
 
SYLVI: There is a theory among like, weird alt right guys in Canada that Justin Trudeau is Castro's illegitimate son.
 
DRE: Oh!
 
[The group laughs]
 
JANINE: It's like -
 
DRE: I love it.
 
JANINE: It's like a pretty massage in his theory, too. Right?
 
AUSTIN: Yes.
 
JANINE: Because like his mom was pretty liberal, like pretty famously liberal kind of was - was like a prime minister's wife who partied a bit.
 
AUSTIN: Uh huh. Yes.
 
DRE: Oh, right. I
 
AUSTIN: Very much that. Yes.
 
ART: Okay. But there has to be some story like that, right? There's inevitably history of the word. Historical, world leader sex party, right? Like,
 
JACK: Yeah, that fuckin owl thing. The owl party.
 
DRE: That was just the Kennedy and Marilyn Monroe, right? Isn't that the whole thing?
 
JACK: Sure, I suppose. Yeah.
 
[Everyone talks at once]
 
JANINE: The owl party?
 
JACK: The Bohemian Grove - Janine, the Bohemian Grove.
 
SYLVI: Oh, god.
 
JACK: I got to tell you, if there was anywhere that 47 has been...
 
[The group laughs]
 
JACK: The Bohemian Grove. Let me put a link in here.
 
JANINE: I feel like I've heard of this, but I am like brain numb right now.
 
DRE: [reading the article] huh.
 
JANINE: I was thinking of one that caught on fire. So it's not this one.
 
DRE: The Spring Jinx.
 
JACK: Yes, the Jinx.
 
AUSTIN: The Jinx is up.
 
JANINE: This is my favorite episode of The Marvelous Miss Maisel.
 
JACK: [laughing] Yeah.
 
JANINE: When she plays The Bohemian Grove and calls what's his name? Something bad. and Susie's like, "You can't call him.." and then the whole thing.
 
[Austin and Jack chuckle]
 
JANINE: Is that show coming back? That has to be coming back.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah, but after that last season, I'm not sure I want it to.
 
JANINE: Yeah, that was rough, that made me feel bad.
 
AUSTIN: They got rid of the people that made that show good on the writing side.
 
DRE: Oh, that sucks.
 
AUSTIN: They don't know that that's gonna like - what happened is all of the creators stayed on, but the writing team was let go.
 
JANINE: Ewwww
 
JACK: Oh... no.
 
AUSTIN: The good seasons.
 
JANINE: Bad!
 
JACK: A bad vibe.
 
ART: Which show?
 
AUSTIN: The Marvelous The Marvelous Miss, Mrs. Maisel.
 
JANINE: I feel like it's also it is also at that point where I feel like every historical show makes its fucking turn, right? Of like, "now this is going to be about sad sadness, and the highs are going to be lower and all good things will be punished" - a Downton Abbey turn.
 
AUSTIN: I don't mind that sad turn, but I don't think they earned it. And I don't think that they know how to do it. Because -
 
JANINE (overlapping): That's not what that show is and that shows done sad before but it's done a very specific kind of sad.
 
JACK: And firing the writers is not the - or getting rid of the writers is not the way that you do a sad turn, right?
 
AUSTIN: No.
 
KEITH: That is a - that is too sad of a turn to put on TV.
 
AUSTIN: Yes.
 
JANINE: Yeah.
 
JACK: Especially for the writers. Yeah.
 
ART: I - I've not seen this show. But I want you to know that I'm all the way ready to call the Emmy people racist if it beats Lovecraft Country for best costumes.
 
AUSTIN: Okay. Best costumes specifically?


[Time stamp: 10:00]
 
ART: Costumes specifically.
 
JACK (overlapping): Oh, because like, historical?
 
ART (overlapping): because I feel like period. Yeah. Period stuff gets the costume stuff all the time. Because awards voters are really fucking boring people. just deep in their souls
 
JACK: People love old time-y clothes.
 
ART: Yeah. But Lovecraft Country had the best costumes on TV this year. I refuse to entertain anything else I kind of feel like -
 
DRE: Bold claim when Masked Singer is still on TV, Art.


[Sylvi laughs]
 
ART: Are they eligible? Is that the same category?
 
JANINE: They -
 
DRE: They had like billboards trying to win an Emmy last year for Best Costume stuff.
 
ART: Sorry, Janine.
 
DRE: Sorry, yeah.
 
JANINE: I was just gonna say that, I feel like Miss Maisel won before. Repeatedly. And I don't, this I know, this isn't how awards work? But if you're doing the same thing every year, I don't think you should keep winning the award.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah, because at that point-
 
ALI: They could have a good costume year and a bad costume year? They still make the costumes every year.
 
ART: Yeah, I feel like Mad Men one 100 times.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah, but I don't I'm-
 
KEITH: For what? For gray suit?
 
[Ali laughs]
 
AUSTIN: There are women in that show, too.
 
ART: 
Yeah, it's usually women who win the costumes.
 
KEITH: I haven't really seen Mad Men
 
JANINE: Mad Men make sense. Every few years when they do a shift from like, you know, by the end of that show -
 
AUSTIN (overlapping): It's the beginning of the 60s to -
 
JANINE (overlapping): is so different to the beginning. Like, when you compare that this sort of this sort of when you when you compare like Peggy Olsen's wardrobe evolution, it's it is wild, but that's not what awards are really?
 
ART: But speaking of the Masked Singer franchise, they announced the Masked Dancer on the show this week.
 
JACK: They did! Oh boy.
 
ART: Absolutely bonkers idea.
 
JACK: Yeah, it sounds real, real tough.
 
KEITH: How far? Do you think they can stretch the mask thing? What like what is the most abstract thing they can get celebrities can to do while masked?
 
ART: I think this might be it? I think dancing might be as far as it goes. It's a real test for me, because they they showed the they brought on Craig Robinson who's gonna host and like they pitched it when they introduced him. And I was like, "This show sounds terrible." And Jess was immediately like, "well, we watch, 'I Can See Your Voice.' So we really have to consider that we'll watch anything that's on.
 
KEITH: Oh, so that's the opposite on in the other way. Right? How does that one work?
 
DRE: I Can See Your Voice is where somebody comes up and then basically like, lip syncs, right? And there's four people and you have to choose which is like the real singer?
 
JACK: [laughing] what?
 
ART: There's three, there's two groups of three. They start with a lip synching round. And then there's like three more rounds? And it's all just not- it's it's basically flipping a coin six times and seeing how many times you win. But for some reason, we keep watching it. I don't know what's happening. I mean, I don't know if I'll be watching it if it weren't a pandemic.
 
DRE: I mean it doesn't sound that bad after Masked Singer.
 
JANINE: Do you think they coach the celebs like did they have like, "okay, you're gonna be on Masked Singer, here's your three week vocal training Crash Course."
 
ART: Definitely
 
JANINE: And then you perform? Yeah.
 
ART: The problem with I Can See Your Voice is that there's a celebrity panel that's advising the contestants on whether or not they think these people can sing. And there's usually like one or two musicians, and then it's just like, well, it's Yvette Nicole Brown saying whether or not she thinks this person can sing based on how they held their mic while they were lip synching which is just like, absolute nonsense.
 
JANINE: I don't even know who that is.
 
ART: Although I got to one this week because they said that their profession was streaming video games on TikTok and I was like "well that's just not a thing" and so this is this whole thing falls apart and I got that one. So yes, there are other clues -
 
KEITH: Because that's not a job that you can have? 
 
ART: I don't think you can stream I don't think anyone streams games on -
 
KEITH: It's not long enough.
 
ART:  - games on TikTok. Yeah,
 
ALI: I, no, I think people stream games on stream on TikTok.
 
DRE: Can you stream on TikTok?
 
KEITH: Oh, they do have live?
 
SYLVI: Yeah, you can go live.
 
DRE: Oh.....
 
ART: I was right about this person.
 
JANINE: What's the next Masked whatever, made me think of those TikTok like actor POV ones where someone just like lip syncs to a scene from a movie or a TV show... do that in a mask.
 
ALI: Oh, yeah.
 
JANINE: I want to be able to judge someone's acting skill somehow and some are give them a very... Ooh do it like AI face replacement, like CG weird thing? Or like put them up in in face rig? Make them V Tubers. It's a V Tuber one!
 
KEITH: What are they being judged on? And what do you guess about them?
 
JANINE: You have to like guess they're like mannerisms, how convincing an actor they are and shit like that.
 
SYLVI:  I wish the masked singer was celebrities doing V Tuber rigs instead.
 
JANINE: Celebrity V Tuber POV vampire dad.
 
[Keith laughs]
 
DRE: What a powerful combination of letters.
 
ART: Feels like it's hard to pitch to a network though.
 
AUSTIN: Really quick, I figured out something. Did you know that there are in fact multiple costume design Emmy Awards?
 
ART: That make sense.
 
AUSTIN: There are four awards. Want to guess what they are?
 
ART: Are these all primetime? Are you kind of primetime and daytime?
 
AUSTIN: I'm only having primetime This is just I'm thinking I'm only looking at the Primetime Emmys here.
 
KEITH: Do they dis- do they distinguish between like, period shows and not period shows?
 
SYLVI: I was going to say by genre.
 
AUSTIN: So, so we got drama, we got period, non non period, is one guess, genre based is another guess. Janine, you said something?
 
JANINE: I said biggest.
 
[Keith laughs]
 
AUSTIN: Biggest, biggest one. Biggest costume, 2021.
 
DRE: Biggest costume goes to 10-foot skeleton at the Home Depot.
 
KEITH: Best biggest costume and best smallest costume.
 
ART: 
I'm going to guess that it's like the  other dividers that, it's like comedy, drama, reality, nonfiction.
 
KEITH: Best reality costume.
 
AUSTIN: So these are all good guesses because they're all right. We got: all Outstanding Contemporary Costumes, which for last year, for instance. That was like Blackish Euphoria, Grace and Frankie, Killing Eve, Schitt's Creek, The Politician - which I've never heard of before - and Unorthodox. Then there is Outstanding Period Costumes, which is where you get your Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, you get The Crown in there, Pose etc. -- interesting for me that like, I would really want to know where the line is for period. Do you know what I mean? Like if you release a show set in 2000, is that period costuming at this point?
 
JACK: Sure
 
AUSTIN: You know,
 
JACK: Clueless would definitely be period costuming.
 
AUSTIN: Yes - except, not when it came out, It wouldn't have.
 
JACK: Nope -
 
AUSTIN: That would have just been costume.
 
JACK: costume.
 
AUSTIN: That would have been - yeah. Then there is Outstanding Costume for a Variety Nonfiction or Reality Program, which is Dancing with the Stars, RuPaul's Drag Race, Drunk History, Saturday Night Live - the episode that Eddie Murphy hosted, the Masked Singer - so there's your Masked Singer.
 
JANINE: It's fascinating to me -
 
AUSTIN:  - which got the fucking win, by the way.
 
DRE: Hell yeah.
 
JANINE: It's fascinating to me that Drunk History is in that category, I guess.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah. Uh huh. Yeah, right? It's in a period. Right?
 
KEITH: Oh, cuz half of its period.  In the end, the drunk comedians are not going to win for contemporary costume [laughing].
 
[Austin laughing]
 
ART: They're probably supplying their own wardrobe.
 
KEITH: Oh, yeah.
 
AUSTIN: It was specifically an episode about the first modern airplane wing, or with the kids activism, and a poodle. And then finally, Outstanding Fantasy/Sci-Fi costumes genre - Sylvi was right with that one. That was Carnival Row, The Handmaid's Tale, Mandalorian, Watchmen and Westworld. Watchman wins.
 
ART: That's such a weird grouping because - I don't know it's not important, awards are just for the spectacle.
 
KEITH: I only saw the Mandalorian, by the way.
 
AUSTIN: People should vote for us, by the way, in whatever the Audio Verse Award.
 
ART: I'm not interested in any awards until we get a Hugo. cast
 
AUSTIN: We should fucking get a Hugo.
 
ART: We should get a Hugo.
 
AUSTIN: Not for nothing, we've earned a fucking Hugo.
 
DRE: What - do I need to clap to note that we - what was the fucking thing where it gave actual play as a genre?
 
JACK: That was the Hugos.
 
DRE: That was the Hugo? Yeah.
 
AUSTIN: Was that the Hugo?
 
JANINE: That sounds like the stuff they would pull. Didn't they give all of AO3 an award?
 
AUSTIN: No - Hugo did give AO3, you're thinking of the Enneys? or was it the Diana Jones award?
 
DRE: Yes, that that sounds right.
 
AUSTIN: I think it was Diana Jones award gave actual plays - the Diana Jones award is like a big tabletop RPG thing.
 
ART: Things to talk to our agent about.
 
AUSTIN: Get us a fucking Hugo. Oh, yeah. He loves the season. So yeah? Yeah.
 
ART: I don't know that we're strictly eligible. But uh, you know, why not? Because we're not a book. Grow up.
 
[The group laughs]
 
AUSTIN: They give an award for Best Fan Cast.
 
ART: Well, I don't think we qualify for that. 
 
AUSTIN: Why? We're fans of ourselves.
 
DRE: Yeah. Damn.
 
KEITH: It's one of the, it's one of the things: at least one of us has to be a fan during the season. That's right.
 
ALI: We fucking - we put the guy from Fast & Furious in the season. We deserve an award for that.
 
AUSTIN: That's true, that's fandom. [Ali laughs]. The fact that they put out a Best Fan Cast thing but not a best podcast thing? Or audio thing?
 
JACK: Weird. I mean, also very Hugo's.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah. Yeah.
 
JACK: Who is Han in the season?
 
AUSTIN: Slo Uplight.
 
JACK: Oh Slo Uplight.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah, yeah
 
ART: Can you believe we haven't seen the new Fast & the Furious movie?


[Time stamp: 20:00]
 
DRE: Don't remind me.
 
ALI: [laughs] you had your tickets bought.
 
DRE: I know!
 
AUSTIN: Sad, it's sad. Alright, Time.is
 
JANINE: Masked Street Racer.
 
AUSTIN: Ooh!
 
ART: Would watch. Would 100% watch.
 
JACK: No. Nope.
 
DRE: 100% percent would watch
 
AUSTIN: Too risky.
 
ART: Those elaborate costumes crashing expensive cars.
 
JANINE: Who's driving? Who's driving? is just a great tagline.  


[The group laughs]
 
ART: I feel like Masked Driver could just be called "Who's Driving" if we don't want to work with those people
 
[Keith laughs]
 
JACK: "Well based on the way that she took this corner, I think that the bumblebee is-"
 
KEITH: Justin Bieber,
 
JACK: Justin Bieber, uh huh.
 
ALI: and his youth pastor.
 
[Austin laughs, Ali laughs]
 
ART: Just, Just before we clap, I want to say that the androgynous presentation of the mushroom on this year's Masked Singer has been utterly fascinating to me.
 
AUSTIN: The mushroom?
 
JACK: I gotta Google this.
 
DRE: Jaz is pretty sure she knows who that is.
 
ART: I have two guesses that I think are both right. So I think it's been two people
 
AUSTIN: How do you think it's been two people?
 
ART: - in some sort of Man-in-the-Iron-Mask situation.
 
JANINE: No, they can't do that. Oh -
 
KEITH: You should find somewhere to put a small bet on that because that would be-
 
DRE: Well, there were two people earlier this year.
 
ART: That was two people.
 
DRE: That was two people at the same time.
 
AUSTIN: Is it 100 Gecs?
 
SYLVI: Oh my god
 
DRE: No.
 
JANINE: What's the broccoli? What's this broccoli that I'm seeing? This looks like a different show.
 
DRE: Oh, that's the, that's the broccoli.
 
ART: That's the broccoli. 
 
JANINE: [small pause] I hate it.
 
KEITH: Yeah, that's the broccoli.
 
DRE: The broccoli has a good voice. Here's the thing. I thought that the - oh god, I'm not gonna nevermind, this is stupid.
 
AUSTIN: No, join us.
 
KEITH: What is it?
 
DRE: Okay, the night where the Broccoli lost and like they were unmasked. I'm tying to remember... who? Who was it? Paul....
 
ART: Paul Anka,
 
KEITH: [joking] Paul Simon.
 
DRE: One of the - I think it was Ken Jeong - had guessed like, Ringo Starr. And like I went on Google just to like look up all their guesses to see if any of them made sense. And the night before, Ringo Starr had put out a tweet saying like "Happy Thanksgiving America" with a picture of him holding up a piece of broccoli. And I was like, "Oh shit, Ringo Starr fucked up his scheduled tweet" or whatever. See, this is why I didn't want to tell the story, it's very silly.
 
AUSTIN: I see.
 
KEITH: But wait - so why - So yeah, Ringo Star just make a weird broccoli tweet? [laughs]
 
JANINE: Does he just really like Broccoli then?
 
DRE: So Ringo Star is just taking pictures of broccoli - yeah, uh huh [laughs].
 
ART: Ringo Star, Broccoli lover. That's what happened. You're the biggest rock star in the world. And then 50 years later, you're holding a broccoli on Twitter.
 
[The group laughs]
 
DRE: I guess, is he a vegan, or something?
 
AUSTIN: I have no idea.
 
JANINE: Paul McCartney was a vegan.
 
ART: That's true, but maybe they all ended up being.
 
AUSTIN: Okay, here are the clues. The mushroom is a healer and a scholar. There is a random hot dog -
 
DRE: That's just my final fantasy character.
 
JANINE: What?
 
AUSTIN: There is a Hamilton-y reference to My Shot. There's a reference to The Rat Race. The mushrooms first job quote "may surprise you." There's a scene with judges and the stage - that doesn't feel like a clue, that feels like the show the Masked Signer. [Dre laughs] There was a reference to suits. "No, this is not Meghan Markle, calm down." Thank you Cosmopolitan. There's a rake and some gardening supplies. There's a Hamilton-y reference to shroom aka Room Where It Happens. And there's a Hamilton-y reference to rise- It sounds like as a Hamilton person to me.
 
KEITH: Sounds like a Hamilton person -
 
ART: I think that's all misinfor- that's all to me a - yeah.
 
JACK: Like a red herring.
 
DRE: So here's the thing though,  Art because this is Jazmin's theory, because she thinks it's Jordan Fisher who was in the original Hamilton Chicago cast because there's also a bunch of Chicago clues as well.
 
ART: I think it's Pharrell.
 
KEITH: I think it's Dr. Anthony Fauci.
 
SYLVI: [laughing] I was gonna fucking say that!
 
AUSTIN: [laughing] a healer and a scholar.
 
SYLVI: It was the doctor thing.
 
DRE: There was a doctor on this season.
 
AUSTIN: Oh, huh.
 
DRE: Some guy who's sang Imagine and his video went viral.
 
SYLVI: Oh my god.
 
DRE: Ken Jeong cried about how that video got him through the pandemic. [Sylvi laughs] Because I guess Ken Jeong is past the pandemic.
 
ALI: Wait -
 
ART: Ken Jeong is crying a lot this season.
 
DRE: He is.
 
SYLVI: Is he okay.
 
DRE: I don't think so. But he is hosting like six different Fox shows at this point. So I don't think anybody would be okay.
 
ART: He's the only crossover panelist from Masked Singer to Masked Dancer.
 
ALI: I just - can we back up - this is the same Imagine video as the Imagine video right? There's no -
 
ART: No, this was a second Imagine video.
 
ALI: There was -- okay....
 
AUSTIN: Excuse me, a what?
 
JACK: Why would you do a second one, after seeing how the first one went?
 
ART: This was a doctor, playing it on a piano.
 
JACK: "I could do it better."
 
DRE: On a piano - and he was very good. He's a good singer.
 
ART: But it was one of those they unmask them out I have no idea this is this is a -
 
DRE: Nicole Scherzinger knew who he was.
 
ART: If I was on the Masked Singer, I would consume more viral singing content.
 
DRE: That's fair.
 
JACK: What would your mask be, Art?
 
AUSTIN: Do you get to decide? The singer gets to decide their look?
 
JACK: No, but this is my dream world where Art is A. on the masked singer, and B. gets a contract that says -
 
AUSTIN: "yeah, if you want me I get to pick my own fucking mask."
 
ART: Um, my favorite mask was Wayne Brady's Fox costume. That was my like, favorite costume. So I guess I want to like, go in that direction.
 
JACK: Oh, that's a spooky one.
 
AUSTIN: That's pretty spooky. It's a steampunk Fox.
 
ART: Yeah,
 
AUSTIN: We're talking about here.
 
DRE: Yeah.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Wayne Brady and the steampunk fox is pretty right. That adds up.
 
DRE: [laughing] Masked Signer kind of peaked at that season.
 
KEITH: [laughing loudly] I just saw the broccoli. It is genuinely worth seeking this picture.
 
JACK: He's got a whole spread.
 
KEITH: With the context that there's people whose job is to try to figure out which celebrity is a broccoli, and this gets uploaded. 


[The group laughs]
 
AUSTIN: Half the article written in the CMS - Control V. Control V. Ringo! We got this one! Anyway.
 
ART: Oh, the sun is gonna win this year. That's my
 
JANINE: The sun's costume rules. 


KEITH: The way that you win is by not getting guessed, right? It's not by singing.
 
DRE: No, it’s by singing voice. Yeah.  You get revealed if you lose.
 
KEITH: Oh, so then the guessing thing, Yeah.
 
AUSTIN: Oh, the sun is dope.
 
DRE: Yeah, the guessing thing is just like the play along at home component.
 
AUSTIN: Yeah. Wow, the sun is incredible.
 
JANINE: I've never watched a show at all. So now I'm in Google Images and I'm just seeing these costumes and it's like, they're like what I thought - the sun is what I thought you know, the Fox is what I thought.
 
AUSTIN: Did the octopus surprise you?
 
JANINE: No, the fried egg person surprised me.
 
DRE: Oh, yeah. The egg is horrifying.
 
JANINE: Fried Egg in the coat. The Broccoli was also surprizing.
 
AUSTIN: Oh the Egg is bad.
 
JACK: Oh, the Egg is bad.  The bee with the face of a baby? Also pretty surprising.  Is that the the Dark Angel?
 
ART: It might be the Night Angel? Oh,
 
JANINE: There's also the two Owls? The two Owls might be cool, but I'm not really sure.
 
DRE: The Snow Owls were pretty cool - costume-wise, anyway, they were they were pretty cool. They rode around in like a chariot the whole time.
 
ART: They didn't do any dancing. I think I think he sandbaged them.
 
DRE: Yeah, no, totally. He was terrible.
 
ALI: Hey um, it's almost four o'clock?
 
AUSTIN: We should clap.
 
DRE: Anyway, you should look up the Taco and Turtle. And that's that's all. Oh, there's also a Christmas tree that looks horrifying.
 
KEITH: Are there 1000 people on the show?
 
AUSTIN: Yeah. They do a lot of seasons.
 
JANINE: All of them have won best costume.
 
DRE: It's been on for like a year and a half. And they've done four seasons already in the US.
 
JANINE: Ugh...
 
ART: So yeah, they've done four seasons, and they debuted on January 2019.
 
AUSTIN: All right. Ready?
 
DRE: Yes.
 
AUSTIN: Let's go for [Dre laughs] Yeah, let's go for 30 seconds.
 
KEITH: That was a solid clap.
 
SYLVI: Really quick. I just pictured the Partizan characters on the Masked Singer, trying to figure out Valence is under the mask - and nobody's going to guess gas cloud.


[The group laughs]


[Musical outro to end of episode]