Clapcast 34: The Kingdom Clapcast!!! (June 2020)
Transcriber: Adrian (2bearsplease#6076) [0:00:00-0:36:00] mo#3373 [0:36:00 - 1:50:11] 




Austin: [beginning of sentence is cut off] - anything you want.


Keith: I don’t know if this is worth mentioning or not but um … Janine … Janine sounds much better than everyone else to me.


Austin: Oh?


Janine: Hell yeah! (Ali chuckles)


Jack: Yeah, Janine [crosstalk] sounds great.


Austin: [crosstalk] Oh that’s?


Keith: [crosstalk] Better and louder than everyone else (Janine and Austin laugh) um, so like [crosstalk]


Austin: [crosstalk] Um I can get myself a little -


Keith: Best case scenario there’s nothing wrong and it’s just Discord being weird. Worst case scenario, Janine should share whatever setting she’s using (everyone laughs together) so that everyone else can do what she’s doing.


Janine: Um I haven’t changed my settings, but I did wash all of the curtains in my house last night, so if that’s [crosstalk]


Ali: [crosstalk] Oh that’s it! 


Dre: [crosstalk] Oh curtain energy!


Janine: Yeah mhm.


Austin: Mhm.


Janine: Clean curtain energy! Got those fresh tops.


Ali: Well the sound is improved cause there’s not all the dust muting it.


Austin and Dre: Yeah!


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: Right. I really want a Youtube thumbnail that says “clean curtain energy”. (Austin, Janine, and Jack laugh)


Janine: “Hole too big” question mark “clean curtain energy!” (Dre laughs)


Austin: Uh? (laughs) God. It doesn’t exist, I looked I looked, but -


Janine: (laughing) Why would it exist?


Austin: Well cause Youtube is -


Keith: There’s a lot of people in a lot of time.


Austin: Yeah (Janine begins laughing again) exactly … dot is [as in time(dot)is].


Art: Wait if we’re not using Roll20 how are [crosstalk] we tracking our checkboxes?


Austin: [crosstalk] There’s this.


Jack: On the spreadsheet!?


Austin: On the spreadsheet.


Art: (incredulously) Oh my god spreadsheets, look at you.


Jack: This is a bonus, this is a new spreadsheet Art. It has a towel that says “clean energy” on it.


Austin: That’s a curtain? (Janine and Art laugh) That’s our clean curtain energy.


Janine: A very thin towel and a very thin towe- [crosstalk]


 Jack: My name is Crysanth Kesh and I represent Vi Towel!


Austin: (laughing) Vi Towel. I like this one a lot. One second. This is good. I like this. This curtain that’s just wide and doesn’t make any sense like this. 


Jack: Oh what you mean? [crosstalk]


Janine*: [crosstalk] UM Super RY Star 
*I don’t know if I heard this correctly 
Dre: RY Star (Austin laughs heArtily and sighs)


Jack: Did you see that great sign?


Austin: (imitating an audience member) These Friends at the Table names, they’re just getting too wild these days. (Ali laughs)  


Sylvia: I hear if you put UM Super in Rot13 it spells something out. (Austin bursts into laughter and Janine chuckles)


Jack: What does it spell out?


Dre: Hold on yeah.


Austin: Like nothing.


Sylvia: Like nothing yeah.


Keith: It does spell something out, it just doesn’t mean anything.


Austin: Yet. 


Jack: Well I think Jorge Luis Borges would say that contained within the library.


Austin: (laughing) Yeah!


Sylvia: It’s all consonants, so I don’t think human language can really handle it yet.


Austin: Oh yeah (affirmative noises from the group) it’s extremely Lovecraftian. Yep okay there we go, see.


Jack: Ok!


Austin: Um alright we should go to time.is.


Jack: Just telling my laptop not to install updates during this recording.


Keith: God is it all the same - not me anymore, but anyone else it’s the same mixer and mic so how do you all sound so different?


Ali: (sighing) I don’t know.


Sylvia: We have different voices.


Austin: We have different voices, Keith, and different internet connections.


Keith: Yeah it’s the internet and the Discords. [crosstalk] I’m just trying to get it so that you’re all the same volume. It's so disorienting hearing everyone at different volumes.


Ali: [crosstalk] Different sound cards.


Dre: Should I get a sound card?


Keith: Uh, I’m thinking about it for me so?


Art: I didn’t think sound cards [crosstalk] existed anymore.


Keith: [crosstalk] Is it, cause if I’m thinking about it then it’s weird. (Whole groups laughs)


Ali: Don’t all computers have one wait?


Keith: [crosstalk] Yeah well computers have them built in now but they’re just kind of trashy


Austin: [crosstalk] No well - they’re built in yeah.


Ali: Oh?


Keith: Or they’re like fine they’re they’re what you [crosstalk]


Austin: [crosstalk] It used to be that you would have like a dedicated fucking thing.


Ali: Oh right right right!


Austin: You would have a sound card. “I spent $38 on this”. (Ali makes noise of understanding)


Art: Yeah.


Keith: That’s 90s dollars!


Art and Austin: Yeah it’s -


Austin: - it’s real money. 


Art: And they all had .. George HW Bush’s picture on ‘em. (Austin laughs)


Austin: (laughing) That was his, it was his weirdest project was the -


[3:50-3:55 big section of crosstalk I’m struggling with]


Art: [crosstalk] When we had to get -


Austin: (laughing) - oh I thought you meant [crosstalk] sound cards.


Keith: [crosstalk] God, do you remember when we all had to get new sound cards when Bill Clinton was elected?


Austin: I thought you meant that the sound cards had George HW Bush’s face on them.


Keith: Me too. (Art, Austin, and Keith laughing)


Austin: Which is extremely funny.


Keith: Yeah wait what did you mean?


Art: I meant 90s bucks.


Austin: Yeah, he meant 90s bucks.


Keith: Oh, ok? (Keith bursts out laughing, causing Art and Austin to laugh) That’s why I said we all had to get new sound cards when Bill Clinton was elected. 


Austin: Right.


Jack: I have a new bond. I’ll copy it into the um spreadsheet.


Austin: Yes, thank youuuu um.


Jack: It’s not dramatically different, but it’s pettier! (Ali laughs)


Austin: If it pastes in weird you let me know and I will fix it.


Jack: (laughing) Ok.


Keith: Who is your bond with, Jack?


Jack: Uh, Gucci.


Austin: (slowly) Gucci.


Keith: Ahhh.


Austin: All right, ahhh, are we on time.is? (affirmatives from the group) All right. I got a backup going.


Art: Happy Norwegian Constitution Day everyone. 


Austin: Hell yeah. I mean I don't know shit about their constitution, but I bet that's an all right day if I had to put money on it.


Jack: Yeah.


Art: I'm not gonna look at the Norwegian constitution because that's how we never do this.


Austin: That's true, all right um 15 seconds?


Art: Sure.


Ali: Sure.


(a series of claps)


Art: Oh I did bad!


Austin: Bad enough to have said you did bad.


Jack: Immediately.


Keith: You didn’t even need to think about if you did bad or not.


Austin: No.


Art: I clapped at fifteen (15) and a half is what happened.


Austin: Ohhhhhh, no that’s not right. (Austin shuffles in his chair) One second. 


Austin: Are you asking for a second clap? 


Art: I'm just informing the group of what happened to me. Which was a bad clap.


Austin: No recommendation though, there you don't have a recommendation, you're just saying by the way, bad clap.


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: Okay.


Art: I’m really providing a touchstone here.


Austin: Okay.


Art: The community - the kingdom believes that my clap was bad.


Austin: Ah I see, now I understand what you’re saying. Alright one second. 


Janine: That’s a nice sounding keyboard.


Art: I love this new belief, Jack.


Austin: What is that?


Jack: Thank you.


Austin: Did it paste ok?


Jack: Yeah yeah yeah eventually.


Austin: Ok, good good good. We’ll get to all the beliefs and the bonds in a second.


Janine: (laughs) That’s funny.


Art: Makes mine a good lead in with Dre* to if we’re gonna go 
*not certain if Dre was specifically said during crosstalk


Jack: Hm!


SILVIA: Oh my goooood!


Janine: (laughs) Oh my god yeah that’s a hell of a chain actually.


Austin: That means the systems working.


Janine: Like it goes back to Millie, it’s good.


Austin: You should go to Keith’s which is extremely funny.


Keith: Sorry what, what my bond?


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Yeah your bond with me. (Sylvia bursts out laughing)


Austin: It’s so fucking funny to me. (laughter from the group)


Jack: Gur Sevraq better watch his back.


SYVIA: Oh my god. (laughing)


Jack: Gonne get spicy today.


Austin: I hope so.


Sylvia: I’ve been watching a lot of Gundam Wing all week.


Austin: Great, I’m ready.


Jack: Oh hell yeah.


Keith: This is uh, this is uh joke, mine is, I think it’s funny but um.


Austin: It’s funny! It’s smArt! It’s good no I like it.


Keith: No, but I’m just saying that I think, I think uh Apparatus like Gur Sevraq.


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: I’m ot about to like.


Austin: No, I know, but it’s like [crosstalk]


Sylvia: [crosstalk] The term day mayor.


Janine: [crosstalk] Calling someone a Day Mayor is like the equivalent of working in office and being like “yeah, he's a he's a bit of an IT guy sometimes”. You know?


Austin: Yeah. (whole group stArts laughing)


Janine: (chuckling) It’s a little bit mean.


Ali: But you would know what they meant.


Keith: Oh yeah. 


Jack: God, not like me, a nightmare. (Ali and Art laugh)


Keith: There's two kinds of mayors. 


Jack: Uh huh. 


Keith: Day mayors and the good kind.


Jack: Mmmm.


Keith: Burn (snickers)


Art: So, we're making some novelty mugs today, is that we're doing.


Austin: Yes.


Sylvia: From a certain perspective that's what we’re always doing.


Keith: Oh, we can do a whole two big mug and then we can represent that on the mug.


Sylvia: We need one stop saying “whole two big”, I'm sorry. (Ali laughs)


Austin: What’s the problem with hole too big? (everyone stArts laughing)


SYVIA: It’s killing me! (laughter grows)


Art: ​​All right, but if we have hole too small I think we're gonna have - (interrupted by raucous laughter from the group)


Austin: WOAHHH!


Janine: Whole two big is like is just it's just screaming to be on one of those very very big like cArtoon mugs.


Austin: Yeah, uh. (Sylvia groans as if wounded)


Keith: I mean it’s perfect cause it’s like the GHTV version of [crosstalk]


Austin: [crosstlak] Oh I hate this!


Keith: Of bigger than before.


SYVIA: (weakly) Uh huh.


Jack: Sylvia's gonna leave the podcast before we actually begin recording.


Sylvia: Uh huh! (the group stArts laughing)


Jack: Spectacular, my Audacity is 13 minutes. 56 seconds.


Austin: Phew. All right. I'm gonna, I'm gonna close the internet actually and do a podcast.


Sylvia: The actual thing that's gonna happen is I'm gonna end up with a whole two big mug. 


Austin: Yes, 100% [crosstalk] it’s gonna be a huge fucking mug.


Keith: [crosstalk] I can’t wait.


Austin: It had to be.


Art: Or small at the bottom and big at the top. Hole too big, not mug too big.


Austin: No, mug too big it’s just one mug -


Keith: The perfect size.


Austin: (laughing) Yeah!


Keith: I'm uh, like last time we played this, I'm sick with allergies.


Austin: Love it. [crosstalk] Perfect.


Keith: Luckily, this time, [crosstalk] it's just sometimes I'm - I cough a little bit.


Austin: OK it’s not, it’s not the death voice.


Keith: Yeah, I don’t [crosstalk]


Austin: [crosstalk] I went back to listen to some of this.


Keith: It’s bad.


Austin: Your voice is bad. 


Keith: It's so bad.


Sylvia: It would work for a nightmare though. (Ali laughs)


Austin: Mhm, mhm. It’s true, it’s true.


Keith: Sorry, did you say nightmare, no night mayor. (Austin laughs, Sylvia sighs)


[Transition music, the sound of bells]


Art: Hey.


Janine: Welcome back.


Jack: Who do we uh have here?


Art: I don't know, us three are the only ones I know.


Dre: I am also back. 


Jack: Hi! (short pause) Oh okay in that case I'm gonna go grab a can of ginger ale. (the whole group acts extremely excited) Wow those are really positive reactions to me getting a single can of ginger ale.


Dre: Ginger ale is good!


Jack: I won’t open it until I get back.


Ali: Yeah, ginger ale is always good to have on hand.


Jack: No, that is .. that is .. as someone living in the UK, I feel that in my heArt and in my soul.


Ali: (chuckles) Oh that’s right, didn’t we have a ginger ale conversation. Do they have that out there, or, well go get your thing and come back and we’ll have that conversation.


Jack: Oh yeah. (Ali laughs as Jack exits)


Art: So they don't have ginger ale right?


Ali: I think they don’t have as many brands.


Janine: So recently, my grandmother when I was little, the only ginger ale she got, it was like one of two sodas she got. She got the storebrand diet soda - diet cola and then she would get Vernors ginger ale. 


Dre: Mhmh.


Janine: And I had not had it in years, since I was a kid and would go to her house after school. And just like a few weeks ago on a whim, I was like “Can we,”  I ask my dad like, “Can we, can we, can we just look at the grocery store and see if you can get some Vernors. Just cause, cause I haven’t had it forever. It's just like curiosity. Like I remember when I was little only drinking it because it was the only thing the only like fizzy thing sometimes and I remember not pArticularly liking it. Like I find it like very bitter and aggressive … um and  I drank it, when I drink it recently. It … tastes like cream soda. 


Ali: oh, huh?


Janine It’s very weird. I would not call it bitter or aggressive at all anymore. I would also not call it ginger ale. 


Keith: (entering the call) What ginger ale is this?


Janine: Vernors.


Keith: I haven't heard of that. That sounds. I mean, I wish it was bitter. Like I like bitter, so.


Janine: It’s not bitter though.


Keith: Yeah …. Did they change the recipe?


Janine: I don’t know.


Keith: A few years ago I had Moxie for the first time since - in a while. And when I first had it, I remember it being really bitter. And it's famous for being really bitter. But then I was like, this isn't better? This is just less sweet.


Janine: Yeah.


Keith: Slightly lesser, it's slightly better, but it really tasted like maybe they secretly changed the recipe. But maybe it's that, maybe they change the recipe.


Janine: Yeah maybe, I don’t know.


Jack: (reentering the conversation) I have the problem is that the ginger ale I really like is not as available in the UK. You can still get it but it's slightly harder to get. And also -


Keith: Wait, what ginger ale is that?


Jack: Canada Dry. Yeah, The ginger ale. But what's really frustrating is that when I'm in America, I drink ginger ale too frequently constantly so I drink the diet Canada dry. And they don't make diet Canada Dry in the UK. So I can either have Schweppes ginger ale, which garbage is - that's what I'm drinking right now. But it's just like it's - it's - it's no substitute. I'm sorry, can, you're no substitute?


Ali: It’s so bad.


Jack: But I’m gonna drink it anyway.


Keith: Isn’t the reason they don’t sell Canada Dry is because they lie about having enough ginger to call it ginger ale?


Jack: No, they sell if here.


Ali: I don't care it’s better! Schweppes is garbage.


Jack: Schweppes is not, I'm drinking it right now. Schweppes make the best tonic water and the ginger ale is complete garbo.


Keith: A moth just flew into my drink. (Ews from the group)


Sylvia: It could be worse, you could be drinking Schweppes.


Ali: Yeah, absolutely.


Jack: I hear they lie about how much mouth they have in their drink. (everyone laughs)


Keith: They say it’s none, but it’s actually a lot. 


Jack: It’s actually too much moth.


Austin: (enters) Hello!


Jack: Hi Austin!


Austin: I’m back. How’s everyone doing? 


Ali: Good.


Dre: How much uh, moth do you like in your ginger ale, Austin?


Austin: Like, I'm like a one to three pArt moth.


Jack: Okay.


Janine: That’s a lot!


Dre: That’s a lot.


Austin: Yeah. I'm a traditionAlist, you know?


Keith: I mean aren’t moth’s 97%, I mean I’m thinking -


Austin: No, no, no. [crosstalk]


Janine: [crosstalk] Is this a “I want as much moth in my ginger ale as I do water when making rice” kind of thing?


Keith: I - was I right? You meant - you were saying like out of hunDred (100), three (3) moths -


Austin: No, no, no. I meant - I meant thirty-three (33) - what did I mean? One in three (1 in 3).


Keith: [crosstalk] One to three pArts moth (1 to 3). How many pArts - 


Ali: [crosstalk] Three (3) cups moth, three (3) cups ginger.


Austin: One. (laughs) I want mostly moth.


Ali: (laughs) Fair.


Keith: Three (3) times as much.


Austin: (laughing) Yeah.


Janine: That’s just moth cereal at that point. (confirmations from the whole group)


Jack: That sounds great.


Austin: Yes. A synonym in my mind.


Keith: It's not a - it's not even a drink. 


Austin: It’s a - it’s a -


Keith: It’s a paste maybe?


Austin: Paste! Yeah!


Janine: You know when - you know when you get to the bottom of your bowl of moths and you get the, you get the moth cereal .. the moth cereal ginger ale.


Austin: Yeah. Uh huh.


Dre: Oh noooo.


Janine: Moth milk at the bottom.


Austin: Moth milk. Yeah that’s what I love. I love a good moth milk.


Keith: That's the milk from the Mothman.


Austin: That's what Luke was drinking in that Star Wars.


Jack: Anyway, back to the rhizome. I think if we look at it, Hadrian has a project to milk the (Austin stArts laughing) -


Austin: - the moths, yes. Mmm. That's funny you talk about - we’ll get there. Resources, not moth milk. I promise there's not a crossover that’s moth milk.


Sylvia: Are you sure!?


Austin: That’s moth milk. Yeah I”m sure. 


Ali: Can we add one? You said anytime if we wanted to add a cross reference.


Austin: I mean we can change this from salt to milk.


SILVIA: Oh nooo.


Keith: You said that you figured out the squid ghost.


Sylvia: All these  moths are here and they're full of milk!


Austin: (chuckles) God.


Jack: Austin has got a new rule, which is “every holiday special now has to pivot mysteriously into bugs about a third of the way through”.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. I'll be honest, we're getting paid by the bug lobby.


Art: Big bug?


Austin: That’s me. Big bug. Yeah uh huh. I'm trying to get Big Bird replaced, but the Seasame Street people are not being responsive to my emails. 


[Transition music, the sound of bells] 
Keith: I had my snack on the last break, I tried to have a very aperitif snack.


Austin: Okay, wow what did you have?


Keith: I had a wild boar salami and provolone.


Austin: Oooo, both of those things sound good?


Ali: My god.


Keith: Just a straight roleplay snack.


Austin: Yeah. 


Keith: Yep.


Janine: I wanna pitch my mug idea that I didn’t pitch before.


Austin and Ali simultaneously: Sure.


Janine: It needs to be one of those temperature sensitive mugs with like the color changing paint on it and when the mug is hot, well when the mug is cold it says nightmare and when you put a hot drink in it, it switches to daymare. (Keith starts chuckling) Because daymare you got your coffee, nightmare you got your whatever on the rocks.


Austin: Your vermouth.


Janine: Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Ai. Mhm.


Keith: I recommend drinking vermouth from a glass, unless you got a nightmare mug.


Janine: Yeah if you have a sick mug, you drink from the sick mug. You could do a glass mug with paint on it, probably.


Austin: That counts.


Janine: Yeah.


Austin: Today is the first day I have not gotten turnips. The first Sunday. I think I am just good on turnips at this point.


Keith: Oh yea.


Ali: Yeah!


Janine: I have two million (2,000,000) in the bank and I’m done paying off my house like I’m fine. 


Austin: I have five million (5,000,000) so I was like “I’m fucking good” what do I need this for?


Ali: Oh yeah.


Janine: You going to tear down six bridges and rebuild them because then sure, but.


Austin: Yeah, yeah.


Ali: I did do that but ... and now that I’ve done that I don’t need this money. I was thinking about doing Wealthy Wednesdays.




Austin: Excuse me?


Keith: Wait .. what are Wednesdays? (Ali starts laughing)


Janine: What the fuck is that?


Ali: So like I open up my gates and I have like a bunch of money and stuff and people could come over and pick it. (Janine laughs)


Austin: Oh that’s very fucking funny.


Janine: Ohhhhh.


Ali: I have a bunch of extra bells and like if people need the bells, I’m out of the turnip game.


Janine: Yeah I mean do Wealthy Wednesdays do Flex Friday, do all of it! (Austin and Ali chuckle)


Ali: Flex Friday everyone comes over in their best outfit.


Austin: Oh that’s good.


Keith: I did turnips the first week, maybe the first two weeks.


Austin: And then you were like “no more”.


Keith: Yea then I just stopped playing.


Austin (said in a nervous singing voice): Oh hell yeah, I got some fucking ants.


Ali: Hell yeah!


Keith: You got ants? WAit is this another Animal Crossing thing or you have ants in your house?


Austin: I have ants in my house. I’m so excited (sarcastic). No, it’s in Animal Crossing. I left one turnip out so that I could get ants.


Ali: Yeah, don't forget the fly.


Austin: Where’s the fly at?


Ali: Well, it’s gonna be there. You just gotta wait.


Austin: Wow. I just have to wait?


Janine: Oh, I didn't know about that.


Ali: Oh, yeah. 


Janine: Shit. 


Ali: I think I still have 10 turnips left if everybody wants me to send them one turnip to (trails off)


Janine: Yea I mean I need five I -


Austin: Wait wouldn’t it be spoiled?


Ali: Oh, I guess it spoiled overnight. Yeah I guess I didn’t buy turnips that’s right.


Austin: Wait, I think I lost my ants. (Ali gasps)


Keith: Oh, no. What happened? 


Austin: I went inside to get my net and now they're gone.


Janine: They’ll come back.


Keith: Is your turnip still there?


Austin: No.
Janine: What? Did they eat your turnip?


Austin: I guess?


Ali: No, it should stay there?


Austin: They’re gone.


Ali: That’s super weird, yeah I'll give you another turnip.


Austin: Thank you. No, I ran back and I was like “oh shit there’s a line of ants” and I was like “cool let me go get my shit” and now they’re gone.


Janine: You don’t carry a net with you?


Austin: Well the last thing I did in this game was pick up all my turnips. 


Keith: Yeah, the one time you don't have a net.


Austin: The one time I don’t have a net.


Ali: Right. I don’t -


Janine: I usually just dump my tools in the field when I pick up my turnips.


Austin: Well, that would have been smart of me. I still have this turnip. This turnip is behind a tree so, I'm going to replace this turnip.


Ali: Oh yeah, it’s still there it’s just sort of they appear randomly, but pretty consistently, so it shouldn’t be a problem.


Austin: Okay. Oh, I got a new villager.


Ali: Oh who?


Austin: Derwin, I don’t know Derwin?


Janine: I'm so mad because I got that duck that wears the really fitted white helmet? And that duck? I hate him. I don’t remember his name.


Ali: Oh ugh.


Janine: I truly don't like him. I'm like, I almost, I went to an island once when I was looking for new villagers and he was there and it's like, fuck you bye.
Austin: Damn.


Janine: But then Cody moved out, and then I was like, you know, I'm not the person who's like, I'm not going to spend 600 Nook miles tickets trying to get the trying to get Marcel or some shit. I’m just, like I’m curious there’s a lot of villagers I don't know, I want to see.


Austin: Yeah.


Janine: And that fucking bit me in the ass, because that duck moved in and then the next day, there was a very cute cow lady at my campsite.


Austin: Oh no.


Janine: And I was like, oh, sick. I'll just ask her to move in. Right? I had never gotten the thing before where they're like, “okay, I'll play a card game with you”. I'd gotten the card game but it was like and “if you win, I'll give you a skirt”. I had not gotten the one whereas like, “and if you win, I'll move in and if you lose, I will refuse every time you offer to have me.”


Ali: You just keep asking.


Austin: You can keep asking.


Janine: I did.


Austin: You can keep asking, it goes forever.


Ali: Yeah, you just have to keep doing it. YeahI was like -


Janine: - I asked, I did it for like forever.


Austin: I did it for like thirty (30) minutes Janine.


Janine: And she was just like “no”.


Austin: Ugh yeah, I had to, yeah, uh huh.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: It sucks.


Janine: I don't like that. That's that's so much further than like, oh, even the thing with Gulliver where Gulliver like just sort of stays asleep for a bit and you have to keep asking like, because like I was I committed I was like no she’ll eventually come around.


Austin: Yeah.


Janine: And then eventually I was just like, I guess not.


Ali: You can also save anything quit and then go back in. (Austin and Janine let out disgruntled noises) If she had like, suggested someone you didn't want to leave to replace because that's the other tough thing about the campsite.


Jack: Hello?


Austin: Welcome back.


Janine: I've become like very sensitive to when a game when the writing in a game leads me to believe something that is not true. 


Austin: Yes. 


Janine: Because it's a thing that in my work I have to constantly think about is this throwaway line going to make players think they can go on the roof and find a carrot there or some shit like it matters. 


Austin: Is that something? Like can I get a carrot.


Janine: You know, I can’t say things like -


Keith: Did you hear about that carrot on the roof? (everyone starts laughing)


Janine: I can't have a character say like, “No, I was eating my lunch upstairs and I had to come down here and I want to get back to it”, because some players gonna be like “if I go up there I'm gonna find a lunch” and they're not.


Jack: Right there Hitman roofman lunch. (everyone starts laughing)


Janine: Shit like that, like bugs me so much and I just just -


Keith: Wait, what are they saying that’s not true?


Janine: I mean - 


Austin: There a carrot on the roof?


Janine: Yeah. Like that’s a bad example but it’s just in Animal Crossing it’s fine, ugh, it’s fine to have them seem indecisive for a bit, but I wouldn’t write that line as like “hm no.”


Austin: It’s like a firm no, it’s like -


Ali: It’s a very firm no yeah.


Janine: It’s a very firm no and you feel like an asshole standing there and asking them constantly cause they’re like “no, I have a lot of stuff to do at home and I like my home.”


Austin: Also, yeah, “I’m in a band or whatever”. Like oh okay.


Janine: Yeah like I” have projects I’m working on”.


Austin: “I have a kid”, you know? They don't say that but if they did,


Janine: It would be better if they said shit like “Oh I don’t know, I’m not really sure.”


Austin: “Let me think about it for a while, ask me again later.”


Janine: Yeah, I mean I think they do I think that first time when when I lost the card game she was like “maybe ask me in a bit” and then I did and she said no.


Art: Checking up on the chat memes a bit.


Austin: Oh yeah they’re good? What’s wrong? (laughing) I'm very happy with it.


Dre: Okay, I'm back. Sorry. 


Austin: Welcome back.


Keith: I don't know what this meme is.


Austin: Which?


Keith: My hands look like this.


Austin: Oh, do you not know the my hands look like this meme?


Keith: No.


Austin: Like the real one, not my fake one. Just Google “my hands look like this”.


Keith: Okay.


Ali: I think I did one of these one.


Austin: You definitely did.


Keith: Oh, I didn’t even notice the nailpolish. (everyone chuckling)


Austin: Ah yes.


Keith: Now I get what this is supposed to be.


Austin: What? What what is supposed to be?


Keith: I understand that this image now. I still don't know what it's reference referencing but.


Austin: The bit in our show a moment ago are we talking about farmers can have nailpolish.


Keith: No, no like I didn't know what this image meant or what it was referencing now I get the connection to us.


Austin: Okay.


Keith: All I'm seeing is jokes on this meme, but I do get I guess I get the form now.


Austin: Yeah, I mean someone originally made that joke that was like “my hands like this so her hands can look like that” and it was like a dude shitty like work hand and then like a pretty spotless woman's hand with an engagement ring on or whatever and that is the way, the internet was smartly like haha. (Ali chuckles)


Keith: I like this one it's the “my hands are” got scratches all over them and the other one is cat claws. 


Austin: Mmm good.


Keith: I feel that way.


Janine: I’m back.


Austin: Ali’s is good.


Ali: Thank you.


Janine: I remember Ali’s that was the cat paw. (Ali giggles)


Austin: Uh huh. Good.


Ai: I went and found it.
Austin: Are we all back?


Dre: Yes.


Jack: Yes.


Austin: One second. I have to learn a new uh what? Lyman (?) says there’s some sort of scary rustling sound coming from behind me. Oh, it's just a reaction. Okay. He wanted to show me how to be distressed.


Dre: What?


Jack: God, I know how to be distressed already, I don’t need a -


Austin: Same, same, I don’t need a - a lime koala to tell me how to be distressed. Alright, let me check this last rock for gold. I'm very close. I'm very close to the robot. I’m right there.


Ali: Oh, are you because I have some gold?


Austin: Then I’m there then if you have four hundred (400) gold.


Ali: Okay, yeah I’ll log in and see how much gold I have. I've been using it for watering cans, (Austin laughs) but I can spare some now that I've cheated with my rocks.


Austin: Wait what’d you cheat with your rocks what?


Ali: I'm fucking glad that I did it. I made all my rocks be in a three by two grid.


Jack: Wow!


Austin: Oh you did the damn thing!


Ali: Ummm, It took a lot of time I (laughs) there’s like (can’t stop laughing) I was inspired because I went to someone's village that was doing it and they had all these mannequins all over their town. I was like, this looks insane. 


Austin: That’s how they do it!?


Ali: Yeah, and what they do is um the, the rocks get replaced once a day, so I time skipped for that, (under her breath) cause I don’t give a shit. And the way I did it (laughs) was way more annoying, because I picked all of the flowers, because I have so many of them, and then dropped individual buds all over my town.


Austin: Oh!
Jack: Oh my god!


Ali: Because you have to cover every square except for the ones that you want the rock to show up on.


Keith: Oh it’s the same as the tarantula thing


Austin: Yes. Right?


Ali: Um [crosstalk]


Austin: [crosstalk] The tarantula thing is different [crosstalk] thing you need.


Ali: [crosstalk] No, it’s the opposite. The tarantula thing is clearing all the space so that there are places for bugs to generate where they typically do. Where's with this, like I said, every single square on your island, except for you want to rock to appear has to be covered by something. 


Austin: Woof!


Ali: So I already had a bunch of trees and a bunch of paths and a bunch of shit out. It took a long time. But it was fun to do. And I'm very glad that I did it.


Austin: Okay, well, congrats on that. 


Ali: Thank you. Thank you. I'll give anybody pointers if they want to (trails off)


Austin: Do the same thing.


Ali: Yeah, I'll come over with my flowers and drop them in your town and you’ll have to clean them up.


Austin: God, all right.


[Transition music, the sound of bells] 


Jack: That's my baseball team. Team Not Guys, I still haven't, um, yeah, I still haven't gotten the difficulty setting on the baseball game that I'm playing correct yet. (Keith laughs) So I am handedly destroying every single team that faces me, despite not really understanding the intricacies of baseball, which is kind of -


Keith: How is that game?


Jack: Ah Spit rules it’s great Keith. It’s really good,


Keith: I should plan. I really love baseball games.


Jack: Did you see the really great gif of a hitter just absolutely smacking a pitcher in the balls? 


Keith: I absolutely saw that. Yeah. 


Jack: What's really good is that the first baseman, the pitcher doubles over and then everyone falls over and then the first baseman runs up, fields the bowl and throws it the first. Sorry, the third baseman runs up, fields the ball, and throws it to first with no care for the pitcher whatsoever. Just like -


Keith: Yeah, gotta win the game, it’s all about the game.


Jack: It's all about the game, I don't care about this pitcher, but no it’s great.


Keith: Keep an eye on the ball not on the balls. 


Jack: Yeah, that's what they said. That’s what they teach you.


Janine: Am I wrong? Or is baseball most like? I feel like baseball is the sport where at face value I'm most confident that I understand it, but the second I apply any pressure to that knowledge I realize it's completely wrong.


Jack: Yeah, this is what I'm learning.


Keith: The thing that I really like about baseball as a sport is that it's really weird. (Janine chuckles) It's like a very strange game. 


Jack: Yeah, oh like as a piece of game design?


Keith: Yeah as like as a game like at a conceptual level it is truly bizarre and unlike most sports, which like--have a have a halfway point and then each team has a side of it, trying to move the thing from one side to the other--baseball is bizarre, you throw a ball and you hit it when you run in a square and you have to try to tag someone it, it's really weird compared to other sports.


Art (in text to speech voice over): I’m Art and all the stadiums are different?


Keith: Right? Yeah, every place is different, drastically different.


Janine: Also, the ball is so small and hard.


Art: I have some kind of interesting fact about how there's never been a left handed catcher ever.


Keith: That's so weird. Is it just because it's easier for, for right handed pitchers to catch those balls, and so many pitchers are right handed that it's like, it's like a thing if you have a left handed pitcher and so you might as well just have all right handed catchers.


Art: But there are zero left handed catchers and 30% (thirty percent) of pitchers are left handed.


Keith: Realy? Is that? That’s high?


Janine: Is that, is it just because though the batter is usually going to be standing on the catcher's left side so if you throw right it's easier and also you're, the catcher's throw performance doesn't matter as much.


Art: Maybe yeah?


Janine: Cause the catcher can afford to just fucking lob it over whatever the fuck you know just has to just has to go in the right direction.


Art: Well, no cause the catcher is responsible for throwing out stealing base runners?


Janine: Oh right! That's true. I forgot about that. I was thinking it was just like, either the pitcher fucked up or you were getting someone out before they came home. (Keith laughs)


Art: It's to the point where like, you can't even buy a left handed catcher's mitt.


Jack: Wow that suck!


Keith: You know, I have a new dream. I know that, I'm I know that I'm 27, but I've seen The Rookie and my new life goal is to--and also, I know that I'm right handed--but my new goal is to be the first ever left handed catcher in Major League Baseball.


Jack: Are any of us left handed?


(silence)


Jack: Ok that’s a no.


Keith: That’s a no.


Jack: Austin is right handed. I think Ali is right handed.


Art: Still got two more chances, though, and if one of them is we throw away this whole podcast thing and start trying to get one of them to the big leagues.


Jack: Well, we could start small, right? Because I love Austin and Ali, but I don't know if either of them are very good at baseball right now, so we don't need we don't need to start a pro yet.


Keith: I wonder if there's how to be a professional, does anyone does anyone have a subscription to masterclass, can we, is there a (Sylvia bursts out laughing)


Jack: Like with Neil Gaiman? 


Keith: (chuckles) Did he do a masterclass?


Jack: I'm sure he did. I got a bunch of ads for him, because I think I'm British. No … I know I'm British, I mean think I got a bunch of ads because (Janine laughing)


Keith: You know that you're British, the computer is just guessing. 


Jack: Yeah. Um


Janine: I have - Sorry, I have an answer but this catcher thing. 


Jack: Oh, yeah. Did you look it up?


Sylvia: Before you say it can I really quickly guess because I had a guess that I don't know if it came up. So the right hand is closer to first base so it's like a fraction of a second quicker to throw to that if they need to. 


Jack: Oh my god?


Art: Oh no! The catcher is not throwing to first though?


Sylvia: It could happen?


Art: Welp maybe?


Sylvia: I - look I have a special brain. Anyway, what's the real answer?


Janine: “De Stefano offered two explanations bunts toward third base, he said, cause problems for left handed catchers and scampering to grab the ball, transferring it to their left hand, and throwing it to either first or second base their bodies get closed and clumsy. Throws for right handers are far more open and natural, but the primary problem De Stefano encountered was with plays at home, because his glove was on his right hand every accurate throw to the runner's side of the plate would have to be reached for backhand, for backhanded impeding a quick tag.” I don't understand what that says.


Art: Oh!


Janine: “And on outfielders throws to the, to, sorry, an outfielder throws up the first baseline reaching out with his hand, would have, would leave his throwing shoulder wide open to the runner.”


Jack: Huh.


Sylvia: Counting that first part is like half a win for me.


Jack: Yeah, yeah.


Art: Yeah, that was pretty close yeah.


Janine: There's also a direct quote from him that says "if there's going to be a bang bang play, the left handed catcher is going to get hurt." 


Jack: God I hate a bang bang.


Art: I don't know what was this? It was Pete Rose who like put like really badly hurt a catcher in an all star game, right? 


Keith: I don't know.


Art: Pete Rose like took out a catcher in the all star game and like broke his leg or something.


Janine: Crazy. Oh my god!


Art: Hey Austin, are you left handed? You’re not left handed, I think I would know if you were left handed?


Jack: Ali, are you left handed? Okay, well.


Austin: Was this a dilemma?


Keith: We just want to sponsor the first ever left handed catcher in the MLB.


Austin: Why can’t we do that unless one of us is left handed?


Jack: Because there are no, well -


Keith: Well we want it to be one of us -


Janine: Because we need one of our friends to be the one who gets apparently very badly injured.
Keith: Yeah I can be left handed.


Austin: Wait, the first?


Art: Yeah there has never been a left handed catcher.


Austin: That’s not true.


Janine: In the majors.


Austin: That’s not true.


Janine: There must have statistically been a catcher but,


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: My, so we just read the explanation.


Austin: Okay.


Keith: We just read the explanation of why this would be and it has to do with like the position of your body, when do you have to throw with your left hand, and you have a gloved right hand.


Janine: Bang bang play, gonna get hurt.


Keith: Are those important enough to bar all left handers from catching?


Austin: Who love the sport?
0:36:00


Keith: Because there’s no left hander that’s good enough to overcome those relatively minor barriers?


Art: (crosstalk) I think they would just make that person play the outfield.


Janine: (crosstalk) Can’t they just play another position? Yeah, just play any other position literally. 


Austin: No, but people like get it in their head like, “I want to be this.”


Sylvi: Yeah.


Jack: Well, this is why we want to have the first one and we were fully prepared to sponsor either of you.


Janine: Maybe…


Austin: Why don’t we just commit to like 5% of yearly earnings to the first left handed NBL catcher.


Janine: Mmm. Maybe a bunch of people have tried but they've been horribly injured like, they’ve had arms ripped off and stuff. 


Sylvi: (crosstalk) Too many hangers.


Austin: (crosstalk) I think we would’ve heard that.


Janine: (crosstalk, amused) And it’s just that no one’s–No one’s made it. No one’s survived.


Austin: But we’re putting a bounty is what I’m saying. And it’s not much, because we don’t make that much but…


Art: Yeah, 5% of what we make a year compared to what? Like the major league salary minimum is basically nothing. (laughs)


Austin: You know, I think it’s like…Okay, what if we make a trophy?


Janine: (crosstalk) Eh, throw in a handshake to sweeten the pot. (ART laughs)


Austin: Yeah, a left-handed handshake. (JANINE laughs)


Sylvi: We’ll give them the Patreon feed too.


Austin: (amused) No.


Jack: Oh yeah, they also get the show.


Janine: We’ll get them a denim jersey.


Austin: (crosstalk) Oh, I get what you’re saying, yeah. I thought you meant that they could put whatever they want into their denim jersey.


Jack: No, no no. They just get Bluff City and the Live shows. (laughs)


Sylvi: Yeah.


Austin: I’d let them guest. They’d be our first ever guest.


Art: Yeah, I’ll say that. If you’re a left-handed major league baseball catcher, you can be on this show.


Austin: Like an arc, not like the whole thing. Not forever.


Art: Yeah. Well, they’re going to be busy.


Keith: A whole arc? Wow, that’s big. I thought maybe just like a walk-on. (ALI giggles)


Austin: Mmhm.


Keith: I’m slightly–I’m slightly clipping so I’m going to make sure that I’m (raises voice, slightly robotic) NOT! CLIPPING ANYMORE! (regular voice) Okay, I’m good.


(JANINE, ART, and DRE laugh)


Austin: Keith trying on a new character. Robot invader.


Keith: WHAT? What did you say?


Austin: (robot voice) I’m not clipping anymore!


Dre: Beep boop.


Janine: Wouldn’t that be like a rebellious robot gardener? (DRE and SYLVI laugh)


Austin: Sure. Yeah.


Jack: Ohh, yeah.


Austin: Love it.


Sylvi: Yeah.


Dre: Wow, this View Arc II is getting real wild, huh? (AUSTIN laughs)


Keith: (robot voice) The weeds pose no threat. I have already won. (JANINE and DRE laugh)


Austin: I think there’d almost be an allegiance to the weeds because like the weeds, the robot could live much longer than its human employers, you know? Like…


Keith: (robot voice) But the weeds are strangling my white peonies!


Jack: Welcome to Lasers and Feelings Part 2: an actual live podcast.


Austin: (laughing) Alright. What’s this thing we’re doing? What the fuck is–What are we doing?


Jack: Oh! Ali? Ali’s gone.


Austin: Uh oh we need those. We need Ali.


(typing)


Dre: Oh hey, apparently…


Jack: (crosstalk) And by those, you mean the left and right stereo tracks of Ali’s…recording.


Art: (crosstalk) Ba ba bop.


Austin: (crosstalk) Yes, of Ali Acampora.


Dre: Hey, Civ 6 is free in the Epic store right now.


Austin: Oh, nice.


Jack: Aw sweet! That game’s pretty good. I learned how to play for the first time.


Dre: Mmhm!


Jack: I realize it’s not a very new thing to have learned how to play Civilization but a couple of months ago, I learned for the first time. Turns out that game’s pretty fun!


Austin: Still good!


Keith: Yeah, I really enjoy that game.


Dre: It runs really well on iPhone, surprisingly.


Janine: Hm!


Austin: That’s…That’s…Wow.


Jack: It actually runs really well on switch, so I wonder if they’re putting pipelines that just, really good. 


Austin: Uh huh. Yeah.


Jack: There’s compromises, but the game itself is just like, yeah I’m playing Civilization.


Dre: Mmhm.


Janine: I’ve got more good news.


Jack: Oh yeah?


Art: Yeah.


Janine: It’s International Tea Day slash World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development!


Austin: Mmhm!


Jack: Everything okay, Ali?


Sylvi: Rolls off the tongue.


Ali: Um…Yeah, the internet dropped briefly but it seems okay now.


Jack: Okay. Good.


Austin: Good. We need that.


Jack: Good.


Ali: Mmhm!


Janine: We do.


Austin: Gotta have the internet here. Um…


Art: I feel like World day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development really steamrolled International Tea day.


Austin: See, I think the two are very closely related in a way the United Nations which has declared both of them would not want to recognize.


Jack: Mm!


Austin: That like, tea is such…Has such a history with imperialism and colonialism.


Keith: Mm.


Austin: That it almost necessarily demanded the invention of World Day for Cultural Diversity and Dialogue and Development because of how the tea trade was part of what stomped out international cultural diversity and dialogue and development.


Art: Mm.


Keith: Yeah, the 3 most popular drinks in the world are water, tea ,and coffee. And tea and coffee are pretty much the most imperialist drinks in the history of the world and then maybe rum.


Austin: And Coca-Cola is like the fifth, which is saying something about Coca-Cola.


Keith: Yeah, yeah, yep. In both, it’s the fifth in imperialism and also in popularity.


Austin: (amused) Mmhm mmhm.


Keith: Drinks are–Besides water, drinks are as imperial as they are popular.


Sylvia: To be fair, water has gotten kind of imperialistic too.


Keith: Fair.


Austin: Fair.


Jack: Mmhm. 


Janine: Yeaah.


Keith: Um…


Jack: I think honestly–


Sylvia: Shout out to Nestle!


Jack: Oh jesus, yep.


Dre: Mmhm.


Austin: Mmhm!


Jack: The only time they’ll get a shoutout on this podcast.


Austin: Ohh.


Janine: Knowingly.


Austin: Right.


Jack: Knowingly.


Austin: What else have they bought?


Art: Yeah, they own so many things. I’m sure we’ll inadvertently shout out Nestle products.


Austin: Yeah, exactly.


Janine: 2022, Nestle buys D&D.


Austin: It’s feasible, you know?


Keith: D and Destle.


Art Is that worse?


Jack: What is the parent company? What is their spac parent company? I’m looking at the…


Austin: Wizards of the Coast


(KEITH and ART laugh)


Jack: Well…


Keith: Well, Nestle is like the big big one. There may still be a bigger one than that.


Jack: (crosstalk) Oh yeah, they are the big one. Yeah. No, they’re the big one.


Austin: No, I think it’s Nestle and then underneath it, Nestle again shows up.


Jack: Is like 100 billion different…


Keith: Yeah, it’s one of the biggest, if not the biggest company and it’s like, top 3 biggest companies in this world.


Jack: (crosstalk) Holy lord!


Austin: (crosstalk) Yeah are you looking at the–the chart–yeah.


Jack: Yeah, I looked if it’s big and I just checked the Wikipedia chart and it is like, even bigger than I was expecting.


Austin: Uh huh.


Jack: I like so many of these things.


Austin: Ugh. This is the world we live in. Um.


Keith: Yeah, it–The–Nestle is so big that if it did have a parent company, it would just be like Unseen Godking Inc. or something. (AUSTIN and JACK laugh) There’s no…


Art: Wow.


(DRE sneezes)


Jack: Bless you!


Austin: Bless you.


Dre: Thank you, sorry.


Austin: Crysanth Kesh secretly owns Nestle.


Keith: Yeah, there’s no way to get bigger than Nestle without like some sort of interdimensional…


Jack: Mm!


Art: Yeah, it turns out Nestle owns time.is and Roll20. It’s weird. (AUSTIN and JANINE laughs)


Austin: We’ve always been in big Nestle’s pocket. Um…Alright.


Art: Cause it is dot time for some delicious Nescafe coffee.


Austin: Wow…


Sylvia: Okay, we need to finish this, Art.


Keith: This is the longest single segment of their Wikipedia page is controversy and criticisms.


Austin: Great.


(ART laughs)


Sylvia: God.


Austin: (crosstalk) That’s how it’s made.


Keith: And it’s bad! It’s just readin–It’s really bad.


Sylvia: (crosstalk) It’s really bad! I didn’t want to bring it up because it’s so bad.


Keith: It’s so bad, yeah. It’s really bad.


Dre: Oh yeah, Nestle fucking sucks.


Keith: Baby formula marketing. Slavery and child labor. (AUSTIN laughs, ALI and DRE groan) Anti-union activities in Colombia. Water. Status of portable water. 


Austin: (crosstalk) Water! Just water!


Dre: (crosstalk) Just water, yeah. 


Keith: (crosstalk) All water. Yeah, the water is bad. Plastic bottles.


Janine: (crosstalk) The most controversial substance: Water.


Austin: Water.


Keith: Uh, water bottling operations. Chocolate price fixing. Ethiopian debt repayment. Ukraine. (KEITH and AUSTIN laugh) 


Austin: Ukraine!


Keith: Ukraine! Broad. Really broad. Forced labor in Thai fishing industry, and deforestation. (AUSTIN groans) By the way, forced labor in Thai fishing industry sounds a lot like slavery and child labor.


Austin: (crosstalk) Mmhm. You know my favorite thing about this is, Keith?


Keith: Yeah, what?


Austin: My favorite thing is the next header is Corporate Social Responsibility Program Involvements.


Keith: Yeah, god.


Jack: Mmm! Mmhm.


Austin: (crosstalk) We’re being so socially responsible!


Art: (crosstalk) Wait, wasn’t there baby slavery? Or was it…


Austin: Baby formula marketing and then slavery and child labor.


Art: Oh ok. 


Austin: Which…maybe babies are children.


KEITH: Yeah.


Art: Ok.


Keith: Maybe someone should replace the word, “forced labor in thai fishing industry” with “slavery in thai fishing industry” because that’s…


Austin: What forced labor is.


Keith: Yeah, I dont know who chickened out and said use forced labor when earlier it just says slavery.


Austin: I’m sure that we could dig into this.


Art: Maybe that’s what the fine was called.


Austin: Uhh…


Dre: Yeah, there’s probably a legal distinction somewhere.


Keith: We were paying them!


Austin: Right. I think that’s–That is probably it, right? That is probably what they’ve…The line that they’ve drawn.


Art: If you force someone to work with you but pay them, I guess it’s…legally distinct.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: Well, I mean, they could've done what Kroger is apparently doing, which is telling people they have to pay back some of their raises they got .


Jack: Fuck off.


Janine: What? Fuck off.


Austin: Fuck off


Dre: Yeah. They're basically sending – I don’t know how prevalent it is, but some people have gotten letters basically saying, “Hey, we accidentally overpaid you like 400 dollars. How do you wanna pay us back?”


Austin: Mmhm.


Keith: This is a sentence they just roll right over after it ends: “Nestlé was expected to launch a year-long program in 2016 focused on protecting workers across its supply chain. The company has promised to impose new requirements on all potential suppliers, train boat owners and captains about human rights, and hire auditors to check for compliance with new rules.”


Austin: Okay.


Keith: It’s 2020 and it doesn’t talk anything–It doesn’t say anything more about this thing they were supposed to do.


Sylvia: They’re planning it!


Austin: They're planning it!


Keith: Yeah, it’s in the works.


Austin: It's taking off this year. My plan, 2020.


Keith: We’re definitely going to tell them to stop doing slavery.


Austin: Yeah, it’s just the My Plans 2020, except my plans is ‘oversight committee’ and 2020 is ‘forced child labor.’


Keith: It’s definitely a priority.


Austin: Absolutely.


Keith: It’s on the list.


Dre: God.


Janine: We had a lot of Zoom calls about it.


Austin: Uh huh. Fuck. Alright, we should time.is. We should do a clap.


Art: Goes into the meeting like, “Hey, are we still employing children?”


Austin: “Is this still happening?” Uh, 50? Does 50 work?


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: Yeah.


Dre: Sure.


[CLAPS]


Austin: Alright.


Keith: Each time…Each time the seconds change in time.is, it’s an unpaid child…


Austin: God.


Keith: Flipping the switch.


Janine: Ughh.

Austin: Nightmare!


Dre: Jesus, Keith!


Sylvia: We can’t keep doing this.


Austin: Welcome to Friends At The Table: an actual play podcast.


Dre: At least the Pepsi Coca-Cola testing site is now the second depressing thing happening. 


(laughter)


Austin: Yeah, exactly.


Keith: Not second most depressing, just second depressing.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: No, I meant to say second most but also second depressing, I guess. (laughs)


Art: (crosstalk) You think it’d be cheaper to teach kids.


Keith: (crosstalk) Only two depressing things in a day is pretty good. What’s that, Art?


Dre: That’s true.


Art: You think it’d be cheaper to teach the kids to program the clock.


[DRE laughs]


Keith: Learn to code!


Austin: Great. Yeah, we were all there. We were all there. Alright. Um, I’m gonna do a new intro, Ali. I know this is going to be cut up in weird ways but I’m gonna do one anyway, does that sound okay?


Ali: Sure.


Keith: You’re gonna cut this?


Austin: Yeah.


(KEITH and SYLVI laugh)


Sylvia: (softly) Oh my god.


[TRANSITION MUSIC - 00:46:30]


Ali: Um, but I went out and drove for a little bit and then I pulled over on like a shitty desert road and tried to look out my window at the stars. I got outside but I was too afraid of getting hit by a car or something. (KEITH laughs)


Keith: Are there a lot of cars in the desert?


Ali: No, there was like none on the road but it was like–It’s like the shitty dirt path where like, at 1 in the morning if there was someone driving, they wouldn't…They would be going 90 or whatever. They would not see me. And also, I was afraid of like cougars or coyotes or a big old snake so it was just like– (ALI and KEITH laugh)


Keith: Cougar is different, but coyotes, you don't need to be afraid of coyotes!


Ali: I’ve – You know, I’ve seen some coyotes around cause I've seen like–There’s a ton of coyotes back where I live.


Keith: Yeah.


Ali: I recently actually saw like a pre-teen coyote just like vibing. Like not a puppy, but not a full adult yet. Just walking around and I was like, oh what a little guy!


Keith: Yeah, they're really cute. They’re really small. Coyotes are really little. I don’t think a lot of people–I don’t think people who haven't seen one realize how little coyotes are.


Ali: Yeah. They’re like–They’re just like little puppies. They're like dog-sized basically.


Dre: Yeah.


Keith: Yeah, they're like me–They’re like small-dog size. Not tiny, but they're like…you know, they’re like 30, 35, 40 pounds.


Ali: Right. You’ll–


Austin: Hello, I’m back.


Ali: Oh, welcome back. Yeah, but last night, I suddenly had this awareness of like, if there's coyotes where I live, there might be cougars out here, and I’m very afraid of them, because of Redemption. (giggles)


Dre: That’s fair.


Ali: Um…


Art: Are there? I don’t think…There’s mountain lions. Is a mountain lion and a cougar, is that the same thing?

Ali: (crosstalk) Yeah.


Austin: (crosstalk) Yeah, I think.


Keith: (crosstalk) Yeah, they’re the same thing. And a puma? Same thing.


Art: Oh, be careful.


Ali: Yeah.


Art: But are they down there? I thought that mountain lions were in the mountains.


Ali: No. In, um–I’m in an Airbnb in Desert Hot Springs springs right now which is like 20 minutes north of Palm Springs.


Art: Mm.


AL : I was telling Keith that last night, I woke up from some weird pains and then went driving around and pulled over to look at the stars because I was like on a shitty dirt road that didn’t have any lights. But then I got afraid of the cougars so I went inside of my car. (laughs)


Austin: Buddy.


Dre: That’s fair.


Ali: That was my night.


Austin: Yeah.


Art: I think those are one of those animals that does not want to fuck with you.


Ali: I– But you know, they really wanted to fuck with um…Um…Um…What the fuck is his name? (typing) John… 


Janine: The guy from Grand Theft Auto 5?


Ali: No, the guy from Red Dead Redemption 1.


Austin: Wow.


Keith: John Marsden.


Ali: (laughing) John Marsden.


Austin: Wow, the incredible overlap in thoughts there, very good. (ALI and KEITH laugh)


Ali: Umm. Yeah. Or there could be a snake! Or just like a little…I don’t know. I just don’t want to…


Janine: Ghost.


Ali: Yeah, I just don’t wanna go.


Keith: There are–There’s rattlesnakes out there for sure.


Ali: Yeah, I dont…I haven’t seen any weirdos yet. I’ve seen some weird birds that make some weird noise.


Keith: When you say weirdos, you mean venomous snakes?


Ali: Yeah, I mean some lizards, some freaks. 


Keith: Not like weird people, you mean…


Ali: Yeah, no.  


Keith: Ok.


Ali: I mean some weird animals.


Janine: Oh my god, Dre. Your dog with the little blanket


A: I knoooow.


Austin: I know.


Dre: Yep.


Janine: Very sweet.


Ali: Has she just been hanging out there because she likes the sound of your voice?


Austin: Very cute.


Dre: Whenever…She does this too when I’m like working during the day a lot. (AUSTIN and ALI aww) She’ll just kind of lay outside the door.


Ali: So cute.


Dre: But then I’m like, “Oh, you miss me!” And I try to like let her in but then she doesn’t like it when I let her in and close the door behind her because she wants to be able to walk around the house.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Sure, sure.


Ali: Yep.


Art: Whereas my dog will only be as far as possible from work. (AUSTIN and ALI laugh) She is–  (KEITH sneezes) She is two floors away–


Austin: Bless you.


Dre: Bless you.


Keith: Thank you, sorry.


Art: –And will not come down.


Jack: Hello! 


Austin: Hi.


Dre: Aww, Mabel.


Jack: What’s–What’s up with Mabel?


Art: I don’t know what its about.


Dre: Why is she being a hater?


Art: She won't be by here–She won’t be by me while I record.


Jack: Ohh, right.


Austin: Mm, fair. 


Keith: What she’s doing is being extremely polite!


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Um, alright.


Keith: I planted my beans today. I’m very excited about my beans.


Ali: Mm!


Dre: Mm!


Jack: Oh, hell yeah. What kind of beans? Oh, these are these…These are these good beans. 


Keith: Yeah, I planted red beans. I planted cranberry beans. I planted a kind of white bean that I can’t remember the name of and I planted pinto beans. I planted like 70 beans and I've got like 50 tomato plants also.


Jack: Hell yeah!


Art: I’m only just now accepting that you're not talking about Animal Crossing. (ALI laughs)


Keith: Oh, this is real life, yeah.


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: Can you plant beans in Animal Crossing? Yeah, I didn’t think so.


Austin: No, not yet. One day. but you can dream. Bean dream, alright.


Keith: I can put stuff on the ground and say those are beans.


Austin: Yes, yes. Are we all back?


Janine: Mmhm.


Dre: Mmhm.


Keith: No, not Sylvi.


Jack: Sylvi?


Austin: No, Sylvi is not. Sylvi is not. I can’t believe this new Christopher Nolan trailer is being debuted in Fortnite.


Jack: In Fortnite!


Ali: Oh my god, really?


Dre: What?


Jack: Uh huh.


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: Wait, how?


Art: Are they reenacting it in engine or?


Austin: No.


Jack: No, I think they're just putting it on a big screen, right, and playing it.


Austin: Putting it on a big screen.


Ali: Oh my god, I wanna go see it! I–I–


Jack: The dead speak.


[DRE laughs]


Ali: It's so funny because when I first saw– There’s been teasers for that new movie right? Or did they just not…?


Jack: Yeah, yeah. 


Austin: We saw a teaser for that movie together.


Ali: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.


Austin: At uhh…Yeah.


Ali: Ohh right right right. At um…yeah. (laughs) And I- I’s so funny to me that like I just know, there’s the part of my brain that's like, “Oh, that’s what a good movie looks like.” (laughing) Because I am so like Nolanpoisoned in my 20s that I'm just like, “Oh right, a movie!” 


Austin: Uh huh.


Jack: Like colorgraded that way with those kind of, that rhythm, yeah. 


Austin: I’m very curious what the thing really ends up being.


Jack: No time travel!


AUSTIN: They said no?


Jack: No time travel in that movie.


Austin: Oh, you’re saying yes, there is. You’re saying absolutely.


Jack: No, Robert Pattinson…


Austin: Really?


Jack: I mean, sure there’s absolutely…In that robert pattinson pro-fil–Profile.


Austin: Profil.


Jack: One of the interviewers like, “Oh, you’re working on that time travel movie with Christopher Nolan,” and Robert Pattinson said, “No time travel. There’s no time travel in that movie. That’s one of the only things I’m allowed to tell you.” So…


Austin: So that means something non-time– Still time related though.


Jack: My guess is that–My guess is that it is time travel, just Christopher Nolan’s idea of time travel in that like, it’s gonna take a really long time or it's gonna be really weird or like…


AUSTIN: Yeah.


Dre: Mmhm.


Jack: I don’t think we’re going to see people going backwards and forward in time in regular ways.


AUSTIN: Right.


JACKeith: But then Primer put people backwards in time by making them sit in a box for 9 hours, which I thought was very good.


Austin: I love it. So good. Sylvi is back.


Sylvia: Oh I’m back, yeah.


Jack: It's a shame that movie is incomprehensible. Hi Sylvi!


Austin: I feel like I had a moment where I really loved and understood that movie and I still think I love that movie, but don't know that I understand it anymore. (JACK laughs)


Ali: Mm.


Austin: Um, alright. Need a clap Ali, or we’re good?


AJC: Oh, is Keith back?


Ali: Um yeah, let’s do a 3-2-1.


Austin: (crosstalk) Did Keith leave? Did Keith leave? Keith left.


Ali: Oh, Keith.


Jack: Keith was like, “Oh I’m gonna be right back.”


Ali: Sure. Sorry, I engaged keith in a conversation early in the break and now… (ALI and DRE laugh)


Keith: Ok, I’m back.


Ali: Hi!


Austin: Welcome back! Okay, ready to do a 3-2-1, Ali?


Ali: Yeah. 


Austin: 3, 2,–


Janine: Do we all need to–


Austin: 1.


[7 CLAPS]


Austin: Are we–Yeah, it’s fine.


Ali: Anyone who wanted to could and it's fine.


Austin: Yeah.


Janine: Ok.


(AUSTIN and ALI laugh)


[TRANSITION MUSIC - 00:54:43]


Ali: I–um…Yesterday, I waited until like 5:30, 6 o’clock and drove out to Joshua Tree. (laughing)


Austin: Ohh!


Ali: To try to see the Milky Way and I did see a bunch of stars. It’s like weird ‘cause your eyes have to adjust to the darkness so you can't look at any other lights for like 30 minutes and then like you look up and you’re like, “oh, there’s all these stars.” So it was like weird, the experience of like, “Oh, there was definitely more here than I saw. I’m gonna go.” And then, as cars drove by like covering my face…(laughing) 


Austin: Mm. 


Ali: (still laughing hard) It was–


Art: There are like–


Ali: Oh, go ahead.


Art: There are like places you can go where you can see like tons of stars. There are places where it’s like, there's no light. This is certified no light pollution, and they’re mostly in like the states of Utah, Montana, Wyoming, and you have to do the same thing. You have to turn off your car. You have to be in complete darkness for 30 minutes to appreciate it and I would love to do it, but don’t you feel like you get murdered in those 30 minutes? (ALI giggles) It’s like completely dark and you have your eyes closed.


Ali: It was– It was–(laughing)


Sylvia: Yeah, that is the opening scene to Zodiac, is what that sounds like to me.


Art: Yeah.


Dre: Mm!


Ali: Yeah, it was–It was super weird. I had like pulled off on a spot and then like two other cars pulled off with me and they all had headlamps. And they like–It was so so so dark and it was a desert and they were like walking…It wasnt even like a trail i was like, “Where the fuck are you guys going? You’re gonna die! You’re gonna get eaten out there or you’re gonna kill each other!” Like what the fuck am I doing?


Art: Uh huh.


Keith: Don’t go in the woods or you'll kill your friend.


Ali: Yeah, so I like, I–I chilled there for like 20 minutes trying to look at the sky. I was like, this is fine, and then a bug bit me while my eyes were closed and I got really freaked out and I drove to a different place and did the same thing.


Austin: Yeah, that’s, yeah. Uh-huh. (ALI laughing)


Keith: What kind of bug was it? A particularly nasty bug?


Ali: No, I couldn’t see it! I was in the desert in the dark and I felt a sting on my leg and I was like, nope. I gotta go! (laughs)


Austin: Gotta go! I’m not here anymore.


Ali: And I dropped–It’s so funny because I had dropped my sweater to grab my phone to turn the flashlight on to see what bit me. (laughs) I was like too afraid to go to the front of my car to get my sweater because there might have been a snake or something on my car, but yeah. I didn’t see any weird animals.


Austin: Oh my god. Wait, in your car?


Ali: No no no. Well, it could've been! How do I know? (laughs) I was completely defenseless!


Austin: Snakes can’t open doors normally.


Ali: Well, they can slither up!


AUSTIN: (disbelieving) Mmm.


Ali: If I open the car–(breaks off laughing) If i open my door to get my phone and then left it open, that snake would've been like, “Oh, chill.” 


Austin: Mmhm.


Dre: Mm.


Ali: Yeah. I was–


Keith: You do not want a snake to think anything’s chill.


Ali: No. Well…


Dre: Well…


Keith: Well, actually cause if they're on edge, they'll get you.


Dre: Yeah.


Ali: Exactly. Yeah, there was one area that they had a mountain goats sign and I was like, “Oh, let me get out here cause it's darker. Let me see if I can see the stars again.” And then I was like, “Wait, if there's goats here, there's mountain lions.” (laughs) So I just left. Um.


Keith: It could have just been a concert.


J: How’s the desert been today, Ali?


Ali: Fine. Um, hot out there. (JACK laughs)


J: Fine is one of the many states that deserts can be. (ALI laughs)


Ali: It's not very windy and it’s not extremely hot.


J: Oh, nice! That’s great.


Ali: So, yeah. 


Austin: Umm, are we good?


Dre: Art, did you want to ask Jack about the meme that you were asking about?


JACKeith: Hm?


Art: Oh, I almost didn’t because now it feels like an obligation. Do you know what this ‘taking care of your wife and children isn’t a crime’ thing is?


J: (wearily) Yes.


Ali: Wait, what?


Art: So it is an English thing or a British thing.


J: It is. So you know, so the British government’s response to coronavirus has been appalling and negligent. And their first push was, “The coronavirus isn't going to be a problem. Everyone just live your normal lives and if people die, that's what happens during a virus.” Their second thing was, “Everybody has to stay at home and can’t do anything.” And they did that with such startling whiplash that everyone kind of went, “Uhh, what?” Now they want to get the economy working again, so they have done a really clever tactic which is to shift their messaging from ‘stay home’ to ‘stay alert’, without actually explaining what ‘stay alert’ means. (ALI laughs) Uh, and it seems like what they are really anticipating is for when the second wave hits, it is very easy to then blame that on a public and say, “Well, you know, we the government were trying our best.”


Keith: “We said stay alert!”


J: Yeah. In stage two, the architect of the lockdown was caught breaking lockdown to go have an affair. Which is–(ALI laughs)


Austin: (crosstalk) God. You’re done! (JANINE groans)


J: Which is a–Which is a British scandal.


Janine: (crosstalk) Tradition. Oh. (AUSTIN laughs)


J: –so spectacular that is–It’s a British tradition. It is basically. That everyone got very excited about that because it’s a fantastic story, but it was kind of immediately politicized because the Tory government obviously don't actually like lockdown so they made an immediate violent example of this man by firing him instantaneously. The government senior advisor, it transpired just broke lockdown while infected with covid. (AUSTIN groans)


Janine: Whoa!


J: And so the government faced with the opportunity of firing Dominic Cummings, who’s this guy, or changing their own rules for Dominic Cummings have chosen the latter. Grant Shapps, who is the spokesman who came out today–


Austin: Whoa, whoa. What name?


J: Basically–Grant Shapps. 


Austin: Ok. (SYLVI laughs)


J: First name, Grant. Second name, Shapps. He came out and he basically improvised new coronavirus regulations, worded specifically to allow for Dominic Cummings to, uhh…


Keith: It's all about the rules you don't say.


J: It’s all about the–


Keith: Bureaucratic jazz. (AUSTIN and DRE laugh)


J: Yeah, so that's basically where we’re at today. It’s one of these things where like, it is a British scandal so palpable that everyone’s just kind of been watching the news, but there's going to be no consequences so, you know.


Austin: Great!


J: Uh huh, but it does suck, you know. I joke about how ‘stay alert’ is funny because it’s vague, but it is also deeply distressing because of how vague it is. How are we supposed to–What does that mean?


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: Yeah.


(typing noises)


J: Um, so the three things they say are…Oh god, it’s a three step plan and I can’t remember what the first step is but it’s like, “Do something. Stay alert. Protect the NHS.” And it’s just like, “None of those are actionable to me.’


Janine: Do something…


J: Yeah, I don’t remember what the first one is, but it’s bullshit.


Janine: Ohh, ok. I thought the first one was…


Keith: Did they mumble it so that later on they can say it's whatever they wanted. (ALI laughs)


J: Yeah, exactly.


Ali: Stay alert…


Austin: It seems the second one is, “control the virus.”


J: Yes, uh huh. Stay alert. Control the virus.


Austin: Stay alert. Control the virus.


J: Protect the NHS.


Keith: I’ll get on that.


J: Yep. Uh huh.


Janine: Yeah, what?


Austin: Control the virus. Alright, we should clap and get into it because we keep burning–


JACKeith: Yeah. (ART laughs)


AUSTIN: We’re already, yeah.


Art: Um–


Janine: International day to end Obstetric Fistula. (ART laughs(


Austin: Let’s fight fistula now more than ever.


Janine: Only obstetric fistula. All the other fistulas are good.


AUSTIN: God.


(KEITH laughs)


[TRANSITION MUSIC - 1:02:34]


Dre: Apparently my free fiancee or–My free fiancee.. (AUSTIN and ALI laugh) My fiancee just got us free food via Twitter.


Austin: Ooh!


Ali: Oooh!


Austin: What?


Dre: Well, we picked up barbecue from a local place last night and she tweeted about it and one of the guys who owns the place and is like, someone I…I don’t wanna say I know him but it’s like, one of those local people you know through Twitter basically.


AUSTIN: Mmhm.




Janine: Ohh.


Dre: But he basically was like, saw that she was a PD and was like, “Damn, you must be working your ass off.” And then later just today tweeted like, “Actually, you know what? Free barbecue for public defenders. Just DM me before you come.”


Ali: Aw!


Art: Awesome!


Austin: Incredible! That rules.


Dre: Yeah no, he’s a good dude.


Austin: Nice.


Dre: He used to work as a like, a sports radio guy and then either got fired or quit. It’s like–There’s–It’s not really sure what happened because basically it was sports radio and everybody that works there is like a Trumper basically, and he was like “Fuck this!” (ALI blows a raspberry, DRE laughs)


Art: Yeah, it’s really a shame the first time you figure out that sports people are worse than you think.


Dre: Yeah, but then its’ nice when you start finding good sports people and it also makes sure that I don’t like…It’s also been helpful to thin out so that the only thing I don’t listen to is sports podcasts anymore.


Art: Sure, yeah.


Keith: One of the good things about Massachusetts is that you learn very fast how bad the sports people are.


Art: Mm! (DRE and KEITH laugh)


Dre: Keith, I don't know what you mean. I don’t know.


Austin: God, I can’t believe theyre going to fucking do a 9 episode Tom Brady documentary series. Fuck off.


Dre: Jesus!


Ali: Ew!


Keith: Are they for real? Is it…I mean, is it about his different homeopathy remedies? (AUSTIN laughs)


Dre: Yeah, is it about drinking his sweat to reabsorb his electrolytes or whatever?


Janine: (crosstalk) Will it just be Good Lads but footballish?


Ali: (crosstalk) Shut the fuck up.


Art: That one’s not real, right?


Ali: Does he do that?


Austin: Yes!


Dre: No, that’s real. That’s real.


Ali: What, how? How does he collect it?


Dre: (crosstalk) Because I think he hooks himself up to something while he sleeps that collects his sweat and he drinks it in the morning.


Art: (crosstalk) That’s your question? (ALI and ART laugh)


Ali: (crosstalk) Yeah, I wanna know the process! Ew. Ewwie ew ew ew ew ew.


Keith: He dehydrates it into a powder and then snorts it.


Ali: Aaaaggghhhhh!


Austin: I hate this. I hate the thing.


Art: That’s the only thing I would consider doing. If you were gonna make me regurgitate my sweat, I would want it dehydrated to a powder. (ALI groans) 


Keith: And then snort it?


Art: Maybe not snort it…Go in a kool-aid or something?


Ali: Yeah, put it into a kool-aid or something. (laughs)


Janine: There’s like a real…There’s like a real arrogance to some of those remedies of like, you really think your body waste products are that great, huh? Like you really think…(AUSTIN and DRE make agreeing noises) It’s the same as people who drink their pee and stuff. It’s like, you really just can't fathom the idea that you produce waste, huh?


Keith: I’ve been playing that shark game.


Janine: How is that?


Austin: Maneater?


Keith: Maneater. It’s–Well, heres the thing. It’s fun to play but I decided not to do a stream of it because it’s–It’s just like a game where its like people are stupid and the world is dying because people are throwing trash on the ground and like, it’s like really obnoxiously that and I just didnt want to have be constantly talking about that on a stream.


Austin: (crosstalk) The idiocracy style. Uh huh.


Janine: Did you like that free-to-play slime rancher clone that’s blowing up on Steam right now?


J: Oh, a bank?


Keith: I haven’t seen that.


Austin: Wait, what is this?


Sylvia: Huh?


Janine: It’s that…I think I linked it to you, Austin, where it’s like Slime Rancher but it’s like, you’re cleaning up plastic waste. It’s free. I know–Yeah it is, it’s–The bank sponsored it. What, it’s like a–


Austin: Right, yes yes yes.


J: It’s like a U.K. bank game, right?


Keith: Ohhh.


Janine: So you look at all the reviews and the reviews are all things like, “I learned about recycling and also, how to take out a loan.” I'm not exaggerating. That’s multiple reviews for like, I learned how to do a loan.


Austin: Scary!


Keith: Yeah ok, it’s not as bad as that but it definitely was made by people who were like, “The world is dying because of rednecks.” Like this is a, “I hate rednecks” game.


Janine: Ah, I see.


Austin: Great. Hashtag the resistance.


JACKeith: Mm!


Keith: It is–It is extremely good to jump around as the shark and also, I’m electricity shark and I can phase through the air.


J: (crosstalk) Oh, that’s great!


Austin: (crosstalk) Oohh, Congrats on being electricity shark!


Keith: Yeah, it’s really fun.


Janine: If I don’t like it when sharks who aren’t me come at me in the water, am I going to have a problem?


Keith: You are constantly eating people but also it’s extremely cartoony and you’re the shark.


Austin: Sorry, are there other enemy sharks?


Janine: No. I mean, are there other sharks who are gonna come at me?


Keith: Ohh! Yeah, it kind of does–It kind of does and I know that I don’t wanna overblow this comparison. It does the Dark Souls thing of like, the really hard enemy from the beginning becomes extremely like, an extremely normal enemy later on because you get bigger and stronger. So like at the beginning, it’s very scary to have to fight an alligator all the time and it takes like 3 minutes to fight an alligator. (ALI giggles) And then by a few hours into the game, there are other sharks and I’m just chomping them into half.


Janine: Do alligators and sharks share…?


Austin: See, this is what I’m saying.


Art: Great question, Janine.


Keith: You set up–There's a setup where you as a baby Bull shark get dumped in a marsh and Bull sharks can survive in freshwater.


Janine: Oh, yeah. I was gonna say, Bullsharks can–Yeah, that makes sense. That adds up.


Keith: Um, the game is about hunting the shark hunter that killed your mom.


Janine: I thought you were a Great White and it was just like, you’re just in a bayou, I guess? Okay like…


[TRANSITION MUSIC - 1:08:08]


JESSylvia: Hello? [pause] Hello, is anyone here? 


Janine: Yes, hi!


JESSylvia: Hi Janine!


Ali: Oh hi!


Janine: How are you?


JESSylvia: Hi Ali!


Ali: Hi!


JESSylvia: Um, Art walked away from the computer and I brought him a snack, so then I’m on the show now.


Ali: (laughs) Welcome.


JESSylvia: It’s my podcast now.


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: Wel,l you jumped in at a great time. How do you feel about gods…and…uh…


Ali: Food supplies?


Janine: Insurrections.


Ali: That too.


Janine: Jailed princesses.

Ali: Ooh!


JESSylvia: I think we should free the princesses, first of all. (ALI laughs)


Janine: First one, we got a problem with. We tried that before and it didn’t work.


JESSylvia: I support insurrections and I do support food supplies.


Ali: Sure, thank you.


Austin: Hi Jess!


JESSylvia: Hi! Hi Austin!


Austin: I was like, who’s voice is this? Where did this voice come from? Do we have a guest? Who’s this guest? Hi!


JESylvia: It’s me!


Austin: Hi!


JESylvia: I’m uninvited.


Austin: You’re here. You’re invited. Friends at the table.


JESylvia: I’m here! Friends, all friends. 


AUSTIN: Umm..


JESSylvia: I hear it’s going great and the princess is happy. (JANINE laughs) 


Austin: Oh yeah, the princess is just thrilled, I think. (laughs)


Keith: Hi Jess.


JESylvia: Hi!


Keith: How’s it going?


JESylvia: Good, how are you doing?


Keith: I’m pretty good.


JESylvia: Good!


Keith: I just had an almond butter Snickers.


JANINE: Ooh.


JESylvia: I’ve never even heard of that, Keith.


Keith: I hadn’t until today. Isaac is allergic to peanuts and so, (JESS gasps) and Snickers is one of his favorites so he was explaining that he found almond butter Snickers and he started tearing up about it.


Austin: Ooo, aww!


Ali: Aww!


JESylvia: That’s incredible!


(KEITH laughs)


Austin: That sounds great!


Ali: They’re very good. I think that they have like almond-almond Snickers too, like if he wanted the crunch.


Keith: It had almond butter and almonds.


Ali: Oh! Oooh! 


KEITH: I think. There was some crunch in there too.


Austin: Okay, okay.


Ali: Perfect, you need a little texture.


JESylvia: That’s really exciting.


Keith: Yeah, it was dope.


JESylvia: You gotta really love someone to be with someone with a peanut allergy, I think. (ALI laughs)


Keith: Uh, it’s mild. I have a cabinet full of peanut butter. I have 4 different peanut butters in my cabinet right now.


Ali: Wow, why?


JESylvia: Okay.


Keith: Coronavirus peanut butter!


Ali: (crosstalk) Sure.


Dre: (crosstalk) That’s a lot of peanut butter.


JESylvia: (crosstalk) I also am–I’m a multiple peanut butter person too. We have 3 peanut butters.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: Damn.


Ali: (crosstalk) Different types or?


Janine: (crosstalk) Peanut butter’s the new tea. You get special knives for it from Japan.


JESSylvia: Uh-huh.
Keith: (crosstalk) Yeah.


Austin: Right, okay.


Ali: I have to order tea, that reminds me.


Austin: I thought you meant in the gossip sense. (laughs)


Janine: What?


Austin: Like, you want the peanut butter? You want the peanut butter on that person?


JESSylvia: The peanut butter? Mmhm.


Janine: A million Youtube channels called ‘Spill the Peanut Butter’. Spread the peanut butter, there you go.


JESylvia: Spread it.


Keith: There it is.


Austin: There it is!


Janine: We got it.


Austin: Y.eah


Keith: Well, that’s why you need peanut butter instead of tea ,because it’s thick. So this is way more intense than spilling tea. (AUSTIN and JANINE laugh)


JESylvia: Well, I’m glad that it’s going well and I hope everyone got a snack.


Ali: I have some Wheat Thins on my desk.


Austin: There you go!


JESylvia: Great. 

Ali: Very good.


KEITH: I like Wheat Thins.


JESylvia: I brought Art a great snack.


AUSTIN: Ooh!


Dre: Ooh! Oh hi, Jess. (ALI giggles)


JESylvia: Hi!


JACKeith: Oh, hi Jess. (AUSTIN laughs)


JESylvia: Hi everybody!


J: What snack did you bring Art?


JESylvia: I brought him a half of an egg bagel–


Ali: Wow.


JESSylvia: With a cheddar jalapeno cream cheese.


Ali: Wooow!


Dre: Wooow!


Austin: That sounds great.


JESylvia: And then also some chips and salsa and a strawberry mango sparkling water.


Ali: Wow, Art is set.


Keith: That sounds really good.


JESylvia: Yeah, he’s all set up.


Art: (heard from the background) Almost!


Keith: You know, you don’t really have–I don’t know if it’s a whole east coast thing or if it’s just me, we don’t have anywhere that sells good bagels. Like if I wanna get a bagel, I’ve gotta go to the grocery store or like, Dunkin’ Donuts.


JESylvia: Yeah, we have a really…LA has a great bagel truck called Yeastie Boys.


AUSTIN: Whew.


JESSylvia: Which I resisted for a long time on principle. (ALI laughs)


Keith: Incredibly food truck name.


JESylvia: Yeah, but it’s a decent bagel, you know?


Austin: Yeah, okay, nice.


Ali: Yeah.


JESylvia: I just want you all to know that when I said, “Art’s all set up,” from his position on the bed he said, “Almost!” Which I think signals he wants his job back.


Austin: Okay. (SYLVI, JANINE and KEITH laugh)


JESylvia: But it was so great to talk to all of you.


J: Yeah!


Ali: Yeah!


JESylvia: Let me know if you need me to roll anything or…


Austin: Zero dice on this one.


JESSylvia: Oh, okay.


AUSTIN: But if you want to make some predictions, that’s the sort of game it is, so… 


Ali: Oh, yeah.


JESylvia: Sure, I love to predict things.


Austin: Give me a prediction.


JESylvia: Just a general prediction?


Austin: Yeah.


JESylvia: Ok, hold on. Give me a second. Give me a second. Hmm. I think…I think that…I got nothing.


Austin: Well, I appreciate it. (ALI laughs)


JESylvia: Honestly, I thought I would…I just really don’t… 


Austin: This is it. You’re doing the thing.


JESylvia: Just give me a word! 


Austin: No! It’s just off the dome.


JESSylvia: My prediction is: I got nothing and, you know, but y’all have something!


(JANINE laughs)
 
Austin: Wow, I appreciate it.


Ali: Aww. 


Keith: The good thing about having 8 people is when you have nothing, you can just stay silent.


Austin: And someone will figure something out.


Janine: Thank god. (AUSTIN laughs)


JESylvia: Well, here’s hoping. Alright, I’m gonna hand this over to Art and um, I’m gonna go take the dog out.


Ali: Oh, say hi to Mabel for me!


JESylvia: I will! I miss you guys so much, I love you!


Austin: Love you too!


Ali: I love you too!


Sylvia: Bye!


JESylvia: Bye bye bye!


Keith: Bye.


Janine: Bye!


Dre: Bye!


JESylvia: Here you go, baby.


Art: Thank you. 


JESylvia: (in the background) Mabel, do you wanna go out?


Austin: Um…


Art: Hi!


Austin: Are we all back? Hi Art!


Ali: Hi!


Keith: Hey Art.


Sylvia: I think so.


Art: Hey.


Austin: Are we back?


Sylvia: I think so.


Dre: I think so.


JANINE: Yes?


Austin: Jack is here too? 


J: Yeah yeah yeah.


Austin: Ok, good! Okay. Um, I’m just gonna do a 3-2-1 clap. Is that fine, Ali or do you need more than that? What do you need?


Ali: No. I–Just…


Austin: Ok 3-2–I don’t need to say it. I can just clap, right? You just need to see the line.


Ali: Mmhm!


[CLAP]


[TRANSITION MUSIC - 1:14:01]


Janine: I was actually–I had my headphones on when I was downstairs while y’all were talking about Ryan and Shane and stuff and I was wondering if someone was gonna bring up the story that Ryan has about like how he–Cause he used to be a skeptic.


Jack: Oh.


Keith: Oh, I don’t know this story.


Jack: On the boat.


Janine: He was a skeptic, yeah, and then he spent a night on a haunted battleship?


Jack: The Queen Mary in Long Beach, right?


Janine: Yeah, yeah yeah. Um and like, it was something about his razor in a mirror. Like something threw his razor or something at night and it got surreal.


Jack: Yeah, it’s so good.


Keith: Yeah, I love the stories of people’s like ghost experience because some of them–There’s like 2 flavors of it and there can only be two flavors. There’s no inbetween, really. There’s the thing that happened that I hear it and I’m like, “Well, that’s creepy but explainable.” And then there’s the version of it where like–They did a couple episodes at like a Buzzfeed producer’s house and at some Youtuber’s house. They went to like a house that someone lives in and the stories that they told of like, touching a ghost, like seeing a ghost and touching it, and I’m just like, “You’re just wrong or lying.” Like there’s no–I just can’t. I just can’t. You can’t have seen a ghost because there isn’t a ghost to see.


Jack: The human brain is powerful, powerful weird. I’m firmly on Team ‘I don’t believe in ghosts’ but also I’m also on Team ‘that given the right circumstances and conditions, I bet I could very easily trick myself into thinking that I had experienced a ghost to a level of accuracy where I’d just be like, yeah, definitely. Definitely. That’s definitely a ghost.’ But at the same time, I think that a big distinction is that I don’t think it would be real. I don’t think there would actually be a ghost. I just…


Keith: Right, well. That’s the thing is that these stories that right now, I say you have either convinced yourself of something that didn’t actually happen or you’re lying. 


Jack: I’d fall into the former. (laughs)


Keith: There’s also a chance that at some point, I also see a razor blade flopping and getting flung in the mirror and then say I–


Jack: Float…It’s so funny. (JANINE laughs) It just tips off ‘cause it’s like–There's footage of it. It just like tips off a mirror stand, right Janine?


Keith: (crosstalk) Oh, it didn't like get–It didn’t fly across the room?


Janine: (crosstalk) I guess, I mean he’s also on a boat too. Like, it’s not like he–


Jack: (amused) He’s on a boat!


Janine: He’s on a boat in California. Stuff moves.


Keith: Oh, this is a lot worse of a story than I was imagining. (JANINE laughs) I was imagining a much more supernatural event.


Jack: No, part of the reason it’s so good is that the scale of what caused his conversion was so tiny.


Janine: The scale of what caused his conversion is below apple tater. (KEITH laughs)


AUSTIN: Hm.


Janine: Apple tater is a more convincing supernatural phenomenon than the thing that turned him from a skeptic into a believer.


Keith: He’s obviously not that dedicated of a skeptic then.


Janine: Ehh..


Jack: I think he was like 14 as well.


Janine: Yeah, he was like a teen.


Keith: Okay, yeah, I don’t know.


Janine: Teens are looking for a reason to be ghost hunters. (KEITH and JACK laugh)


Jack: Is it Rezzy 7 that has the really good ghost hunter subplot with the horrible video tapes?


Austin: Yes. Yeah, that’s like the set-up, right? Is the very beginning of the game, you play that crew and then you find those tapes through the beginning of the game.


Jack: Oh, it’s so good.


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: Good game. Too scary, too spooky.


Austin: It’s very spooky.


Jack: The way that game opens with just the beginning of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre I feel is very admirable.


(plastic bag rustling)


Austin: It’s so much. Yeah.


Jack: It’s just–It’s just–They’re pinning their heart on their sleeves in the opening shot of the game.


Austin: Mmhm.


Keith: I don’t remember the opening shot of the game and I also don’t know Texas Chainsaw Massacre. 


Jack: It's a very famous–I might be misremembering this. It’s a very famous, very beautiful shot of a car driving down a street like among grasses or something? Seen from a very high wide angle.


Janine: It’s been–I made like cold brew a week and a half before and then just didn't finish off what was in the pitcher.


Ali: Ah.


Keith: Mm, yeah.


Janine: So I’m doing that, but also I just feel like I never really gotten my iced coffee game down in a way I feel good about.


Ali: Ohh


Keith: Uhh–


Jack: Is this decaf, Janine, or is this caf?


Janine: I don’t remember.


(ALI laughs)

Jack: Oh, interesting!


Austin: Wow.


Janine: I truly do not remember.


Ali: Having a night. Um…


Keith: Well, I think you can just convince yourself it’s decaf and then however you feel–


Janine: Ok, that’s actually, it’s not too bad. I put a bunch of vanilla syrup in it so yeah. It’s gonna do a lot of work. 


Ali: Yeah, um. (sighs) As for another fail–Well, it didn’t fail this time. As with another unsatisfactory dalgona coffee…(laughs) A tester, I think I’m off of it. 


Janine: What was unsatisfactory about it?


Ali: Everytime I make it, it’s way too bitter. Even if I use a little bit of it, I think it's just, I’m not going to get a good flavor from an instant coffee, so.


Sylvi: I’m back!


Janine: The thing for me is that I don’t think…There are a lot of people who use it in a way where to me, it’s like you're just using it that way for the picture.


Ali: Sure. Yeah yeah.


Janine: Cause like you know, I think the only the only good–I mean I’ve seen people who were like, oh you can put this on cake and shit. It’s like, no you can’t! 


Ali: Noo, no no no.


Janine: It’s sugar and acid! Like it’s just…It’s not…It’s…You can’t. (ALI laughs) Like the only way I’ve had any success enjoying it, and I do really really really enjoy it, is with milk. Like I just make it as a latte.


Ali: Oh, yeah.


Janine: Where I use like–I heat up some milk. I heat up like a cup and half worth of milk and then I put two big spoonfuls of the whip on top and then I stir it in and it’s fantastic. But anything more than that and I mean it’s bitter cause it is just coffee and sugar essentially, like.


Ali: No, right right right. Yeah, I had had…I had made some out of an espresso coffee powder cause I prefer that coffee wise and use like just a spoonful of it and then poured milk over it and tried to stir it so it would dissolve a little bit and it still wasn't flavor wise what I wanted.


Janine: Yeah.


Jack: You back, Sylvi?


Sylvia: Yeah, I am.


Ali: Oh hi!


Austin: Hi.


Sylvia: Hi.


Austin: Let me start recording again and go to time.is.


[rustling of cereal, JACK sighs]


Janine: (laughs) Lot of rustling happening.


Jack: Yeah, is this the Captain Crunch, Austin?


Austin: It’s cereal. It is. I shouldn’t keep it within hands distance but it's a great little snack.


Ali: Oooh. It’s so good.


Keith: We gotta…Sometimes you gotta munch.


Jack: Captain Crunch. Not Cap’n Crunch. Sometimes you gotta munch!


Keith: I have not been impressed. I haven’t been impressed with any of those combo cereals they’ve been doing like the cereal mash-ups.


Austin: Yeah, I saw.


Janine: Ew, they’re making cereal out of Combos?


(everyone laughs)


Ali: Ewww!


Austin: Yeah, no. God.


Keith: No, they’re doing like…They’re doing like–


Austin: I hate it.


Keith: I don’t know.


Janine: Oh, this is the Frosted Flake, Lucky Charms, oh that’s…That’s. 


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: Yeah yeah yeah.


Keith: Frosted, yeah. I haven’t liked any of them but Isaac came home the other day with Honey Nut Frosted Flakes and that one has been pretty good.


Ali: (crosstalk) Oooh.


Austin: (crosstalk) That one sounds good.


Dre: (crosstalk) That sounds alright!


Art: (crosstalk) So they like drastically overproduced Frosted Flakes?


Keith: (crosstalk) Yeah, that one’s alright. It’s not too much. What’s that?


Austin: That’s what happened, sure. Right?


Art: They drastically overproduced Frosted Flakes? That’s what we’re…


(ALI laughs)


Jack: hey!


Keith: It’s–Well, it’s so–It’s such a subtle difference. It’s almost just Frosted Flakes but it has just a little bit of a toasty flavor.


Ali: Yeah, that sounds amazing.


Keith: It’s pretty nice. It’s not any better than Frosted Flakes but where most of them are different and worse, this is a nice little vacation from Frosted Flakes. (someone is snickering)


Art: See, I don’t think I need a vacation from Frosted Flakes, I think. (JACK laughs)


Ali: Y’knooow, you wanna mix it up a little bit.


Art: Well–


Ali: I recently switched from Honey Nut Cheerios to the Cheerio grain medley just to kinda change up my mornings.


Janine: Grain medley?


Art: I guess I should–


Ali: Yeah.


Art: Like multigrain Cheerios, yeah right?


Ali: Yeah.


Keith: Multigrain cheerios, yeah. Those are pretty good.


Janine: Ohh.


Art: I guess I should disclaim at this point that the only good cereal is Cinnamon Toast Crunch and every other cereal is a waste of breakfast.


Sylvia: (crosstalk) French Toast Crunch is also very good.


Austin: (crosstalk) We can’t go down this road. We have to clap. We have a podcast.


Ali: Yeah.


Keith: I think obviously the best cereal of all time is Honey O’s, formerly Honey Graham O’s. If you haven’t had Honey O’s or Honey Graham O’s, you have to step out of this conversation. It’s the best all-time cereal.


Sylvia: Okay.


Ali: 40.


Austin: 40 seconds.


Janine: 40.


Sylvia: 40.


Austin: 40 seconds. 


[CLAPS]


Keith: It doesn't go soggy. 


Ali: Mm.


Keith: It just kinda–It stays nice and crisp and crunchy. It’s really good.


[TRANSITION MUSIC - 1:23:04]


Keith: This is so–I think when this is done, it’s gonna be longer than Marielda.


(JACK laughs)


Austin: Oh, you mean just this.


Ali: Right.


Keith: Just this, yeah.


Austin: Mmm. Marielda’s longer than you think it is.


Ali: Yeah.


Keith: Is it? Okay. It’s long but it's more episodes but it’s shorter episodes, right?


Austin: There’s still long episodes. I mean yes, but they're not like hour-long episodes, right? Maybe I’m wrong.


Ali: No, I mean…


Keith: Yeah, I could be wrong. Maybe–Maybe we’ll do that tally.


Austin: The shortest–The shortest Marielda episode was 89 minutes. The rest were upper 90s or above 115, I’d say.


Keith: Ok that’s long. Yeah. I’m thinking this is gonna be–This is gonna be almost 30 hours. (pause) Well, of recording time. Not of…


Austin: (crosstalk) Of recording time, not of..


Ali: (crosstalk) Not of, yes. A lot of, yes.


Austin: Marielda was 60–No sorry, 26 hours, give or take.


Jack: While we’ve been recording, I’ve been watching muted streams of video games I don’t care about. 


Austin: Great.


Jack: And last recording, which I thought was very thematically consistent, was this shark game that everyone’s–That Keith keeps talking about. 


Ali: Oh my god.


Keith: Yea. 


Jack: It just–It was just 5 hours of a shark systematically destroying–


Keith: Slaughtering. Slaughtering. Absolute slaughtering. Wanton. It’s–(starts laughing)


Jack: Just relentless!


(KEITH and ALI laugh)


Austin: Uh huh.


Keith: There’s this trope that happens in sort of like, disconnect between the fiction of a lot of things where one of the things that happens is you’ve got like a crazy character who’s going too far to take out just this one shark. I’ve killed a thousand people. There’s nothing you can do that's overkill. (JACK laughs)


Austin: Right, right.


Keith: This guy. This like dumb hick antagonist is gonna kill like you know, the entire bay full of fish.


Art: Right.


Keith: It’s worth it. (AUSTIN laughs) I have killed thousands of people. It’s worth it.


Austin: (crosstalk) And fish, presumably.


Jack: (crosstalk) And like–


Keith: (crosstalk) And fish, yeah.


Janine: And just to clarify that when you say ‘dumb hick antagonist’, thats the game’s framing, which you have expressed resentment for.


Keith: Right, that's the game’s framing specifically. Yeah.


Janine: Okay.


Keith: That’s one of the biggest problems with the game is that it’s like, “Oh, these dumb people keep littering, and thats the problem.”


Austin: Ohhh.


Keith: It doesn’t matter how many times it says capitalism, it’s still just a game about killing the idiots who litter. (AUSTIN groans)


Jack: There's an old Idle Thumbs bit I love, when they're talking about Max Payne 3, and how in Max Payne 3– Have you just remembered this, Austin?


Austin: Oh my god. I do, I happen to have it on deck. Go ahead, keep talking.


Jack: So in Max Payne 3, you can see a news report which is talking about Max’s rampage through a mall or something, and Max has this throwaway line where he looks at it and goes, “Ugh, haven’t they got anything better to put on the news?” And it’s like, no! (KEITH and AUSTIN laugh) Everywhere you show up, you kill 300 people astonishingly violently, leap across the mall–You would be on the news 24/7 in every country you ever visit.


Austin: All the time!


Keith: Yeah. 


Jack: There would be a whole channel that was just, “What is this man doing?”


[AUSTIN, ALI, and KEITH laugh]


Jack: That’s how I feel about you getting the shark bounty hunter like, yeah. Whatever it costs. Let’s shoot missiles into the bay!


Austin: Why not?


Keith: Yeah, and the conceit of the game is that they’re making a Discovery Channel documentary about this shark hunter who’s hunting this one big shark and it's like…


Jack: It’s going too far.
Keith: So the stakes are so low compared to what I’m doing and really destroying this whole region, ecologically and sociologically. (JACK laughs)


Austin: Amazing.


Jack: Like I ate every turtle. There are no turtles in this region anymore.


Keith: Yeah, I didn’t have enough mineral to do my mutagen upgrade and so I specifically went out and hunted like 400 turtles.


Austin: Oh my god! Wait but that–


Keith: Cause they give the most mineral.


Austin: Right, of course!


Jack: That’s what they say about turtles.


Austin: That’s what the capitalists would do! I feel like maybe people have rushed too quickly to conclusions about this game as some sort of…(JACK groans)


Keith: Yeah. Well, it definitely…The narrator definitely says capitalism sometimes and seems like he doesn't like it.


Austin: Mm.


Janine: But also the red states are the problem, we should just eat them.


Austin: Right. Those people, who cares? If you’re a republican turtle, I don’t give a fuck about you. (KEITH and JACK laugh) I can think of one specific republican turtle I dont give a fuck about. 


Jack: Mmm.


Austin: Mitch Mcconnell, come find me in the streets. God.


Sylvia: (crosstalk) Leonardo!


Keith: You know what I–(laughs) Turtles born homeowners, inherented from birth. (JACK and JANINE laugh)


Austin: Yeah, goood. Other people need shells too, you know? I want a shell.


Janine: Yeah.


Jack: I’d like one.


Austin: I would love a shell. I would love just to be able to hide instantly.


Janine: I mean–


Keith: I would like to see for one day, a turtle trying to put up with the unstable living conditions of a hermit crab. (AUSTIN laughs)


Ali: Mm.


Janine: You have a shell, it’s just inside of you and you can’t get inside of it.


Austin: Mmm.


Jack: That is true.


Janine: A turtle shell is basically a very thick exterior rib cage.


Austin: Yeah, fair.


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: So if you can climb into your own rib cage, you'd be set.


Austin: It’d be so good.


Keith: An extremely boisterous bone structure.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: I mean not to–I am in my own rib cage. It’s where the soul is situated in the body I suppose is the question. (laughs)


Austin: That’s true. This is true. This is true.


Janine: I believe it’s in the–Okay.


Austin: We’re done. (JANINE laughs)


Keith: Umm.


Jack: Do we have everyone?


Ali: Yeah, or?


Austin: It’s the pineal gland, by the way. That’s what they call it.


Ali: Jesus christ.


Janine: Ahh.


Austin: Anyway.


Keith: That’s where the soul is, you’re saying?


Jack: Yeah!


Austin: It's the connection to the soul. It’s the part of the body that connects you to the soul, per Descartes. He had some good ideas. One of them was not ‘the part of your body that connects you to your soul is the pineal gland.’


Janine: Oh, so is that why that old movie where they had that ring that harvested people’s pineal glands, it was their soul? 


Austin: (crosstalk) Was it pineal? It isn’t the soul, but yes.


Janine: (crosstalk) It was…I don’t…Why would I know? Why would I know? (ALI laughs)


Austin: Yeah, well. Cause you said it with such certainty.


Janine: That’s–I said it’s in the old MST3K movie.


Keith: The pineal gland is the window to the soul. (SYLVI and AUSTIN laugh)


Austin: Oh, you’re right. Then yes, probably. Anyway.


Sylvi: Oh, yeah.


Janine: Did you know you can get the domain yappos.com for 8900 USD? 


(everyone laughs)


Austin: Uhhh…(everyone keeps laughing)


[TRANSITION MUSIC - 1:29:43]


Jack: I was trying to work out what the universe is expanding into yesterday. By work out, I mean Google.


Sylvi: (background) I sound like–


Jack: And really kind of any answer to that is unsatisfactory, I feel.

Austin: Unsatisfactory how?


Jack: Well…it’s like the–(laughs) It’s like, what it’s expanding into?


Austin: More of the universe.


Jack: Yeah, but like.


Austin: Like, it’s like stretching something. It’s not like it’s…I get it.


Jack: Yeah, but even something that’s stretching is stretching into something.


Austin: Into my room or whatever, right.


Jack: Yeah, right.


Austin: Right. This is the thing worth saying. It’s–Expanding might be the wrong word in that that’s not what we mean when we say expand normally, right?


Jack: Right, like the closest to a good example, like an analogy I heard, is that like time, which is what made me think of it, with Art saying time is passing.


Austin: Mm.


Art: Mm.


Jack: Where it’s like, I’m 27 and I’m going to be 51 or whatever and my experience will have expanded, but it won’t have expanded into anything?


Austin: Right. Right. Maybe that’s the answer. Maybe the time–Maybe the universe is expanding into the future.


Jack: Which is a sort of abstract space that can still be expanded into?


Austin: Sure.


Sylvia: I’m so confused.


Austin: We’re high. (JACK laughs) We didn’t–No, we’re not high. Actually, I’m not high at all.


Sylvia: (crosstalk) Hell yeah, bro.


Art: (crosstalk) I am picking something up, oh shit!


Austin: What is that noise?


Art: My audacity is bad.


Austin: It jumped in audio.


Jack: Yeah, you are clipping.


Sylvi: Really loud.


Art: Yeah, I can see that. Alright, I battered down all my hatches. 


Austin: Okay.


Art: This looks fine. How does it sound?


Austin: It sounds fine now.


Art: Great.


Jack: Yeah, I’m getting a little noise on someone’s line, like XLC noise.


Austin: It’s mine, I think. I think one of my cables is bad. One second. I’m going to mute myself and try to fix it.


Jack: Okay.


Art: Yeah, it was Austin.


Sylvia: Yeah, that was…(ART laughs)


Jack: No, I think that background noise is Austin’s fan, is the Vornando.


Sylvia: I have a fan going too.


Austin: My vornando broke. My vornando’s broken and the replacement is supposed to be delivered tonight by 9PM, and also last night by 9PM–


Jack: Oh no. (laughs)


Austin: And also the night before that by 9PM. Going back for over a week.


Jack: Hi! God.


Sylvi: Hey Keith.


Austin: Hi Keith.


Keith: Hello, how’s it going?


Austin: (crosstalk) It’s going.


Jack: (crosstalk) Austin’s fan’s broken.


Sylvia: (crosstalk) Talking about fans. I have a very erotically named Honeywell fan.


Jack: Ohh.


Austin: Ohh.


Sylvia: Mmhm. It sucks.


Austin: That’s almost more than erotical, right? That’s like erotica-ly named, not like erotical-ly. You know what I mean?


Sylvia: Yeah, right? It’s like a harlequin–Like something that would be in a harlequin romance.


Austin: (crosstalk) Yeah, yeah yeah. Yeah, exactly. Exactly.


Sylvia: (crosstalk) Or a trashy fanfic.


Austin: (crosstalk) The name’s Honeywell, or something. You know?


Jack: (crosstalk) It’s sensual. It’s a sensual fan.


Keith: Here’s a fun thing. There’s like a really expensive air purifier out there. I don’t remember the brand name anymore, but I read this whole thing about how it was like an extremely well marketed air purifier that actually…Not only performed less, uh–Was not only less effective than other much cheaper air purifiers but also in certain circumstances actually decreased the quality of the air in the room.


Austin: Fantastic. Love it.


Dre: Great!


Keith: So now I’m very suspicious of something that claims to be purifying air because I know that there's one that just don’t–That actually perform worse than nothing.


Austin: You know what I don’t like about this is the taglines for these things are like, “Purify, Heat, and Cool you.” And okay, cool you, I’m good with. Heat you, totally fine with. Purify you? I don’t need to, no! I’m not trying to be purified! (laughs) I would prefer not to be purified.


Keith: Yeah. I don’t want that.


Austin: For 649 dollars. (JACK laughs) It would be a good idea if I got the dice in pure cool crypto-crypto-nomic. Cryptamic?


Sylvia: Excuse me?


Austin: the cryptonomic?


Dre: Cryptonomicon?


Austin: The cryptonomicon. The cryptid. The dice encrypted. It destroys formaldehyde continuously is what it says.


Sylvia: You can stick your arm through it still.


Austin: It says this technology destroys formaldehyde continuously. You gotta get it done. You gotta kill formaldehyde continuously.


Jack: Ok, now I’m on the Wikipedia section seamlessly for dyson spheres.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Hi Ali!


Ali: Hi!


Austin: Hi Ali, dyson spheres are wild.


Jack: I didn’t really know what they were. I just heard them kind of talked about in sci-fi things. 


Austin: Right.


Jack: This is the first time I’ve learned what one is and it’s…Have we ever had a dyson sphere in the show?


Austin: There is an important one in this season, in the center of the galaxy.


Keith: Oh, here we go.


Jack: Oh, for real?


Austin: That is where the perennial wave comes from. That is what the NHS was building in Twilight Mirage.


Jack: Damn.


Keith: Here’s a picture of this one. It’s called…


Austin: and then Perennial took it over.


Keith: If you're looking–If you’re in the market for an air purifier, don’t get the Molecule because it’s literally worse than nothing.


Austin: Well, it’s called the Molecule. (AUSTIN and JACK laugh)


Keith: Yeah, it’s worse than nothing, yeah. (AUSTIN groans, then laughs) It is like the most–On this comparison list chart that I just linked, it’s like more expensive by double than most of the other ones and you can tell even on boost, it’s performing significantly worse and then on silent, it’s worse than nothing. It’s worse than background.


Austin: God.


Jack: God.


Ali: Oh this is a noise thing and it’s not actually putting more pollution into your air by trying to filter it? Okay. (laughs)


Keith: No, this is on particles. This is–


Ali: Oh, ok.


Janine: Yeah, yeah.


Austin: I gotta–


Keith: There’s more particles in the air with it on silent than there would be if there was no air purifier at all.


Sylvia: More particles?


Janine: Oh, I remember how this worked. It was some sort of magnetic plates or like ionic plates or some shit like that. Right?


Keith: Yeah. Yeah, air ionizers are definitely a thing. They had that sharper image one that was popular in like the mid 2000s.


Austin: It looked cool, you could put your hand through it.


Keith: And if you took that–If you took the thing out, you could see the dust on the big metal plates.


Dre: Mm!


Ali: Oh, right.


Keith: Yeah.


Ali: A lot of–Not purifiers, but humidifiers use ion shit, right?


Keith: Yeah. Oh, the dice thing is on here. The pure hot and cool. I didn’t notice.


Austin: There it is!


Keith: Yeah, there it is.


Jack: The Imperial Radch live in a dyson sphere, Austin.


Austin: That’s true. 


Jack: I’m learning all about them.


Austin: That is the Radch. Yeah.


Keith: Wait, that’s the thing–


Austin: Are you still reading that–


Jack: No, I still need to read Three and Providence.


Austin: Gotcha.


Keith: Dyson sphere, that’s the thing where you build a big metal thing around the sun, right?


Jack: Around the sun, yeah.


Austin: You get a bunch of energy from it.


Keith: You get, honestly? More energy than you could possibly ever need. (JACK laughs)


Austin: Exactly, 100%. Yes.


Keith: I haven’t read these books, but I know what a dyson sphere is.


Austin: It doesn’t really come up in those books. It’s like a background detail in those books.


Keith: Okay.


Austin: That like the space empire is organized around one of those things, but the books don’t take place at the center, they take place at the periphery like books do often. Okay, should we time.is?


[TRANSITION MUSIC - 1:37:26]


Keith: I’m seeing a commercial, I’m seeing an ad on a Youtube video–


Ali: Mmhm.


Keith: –for a no-show sock and they’re like, “Look, it won’t fall off!” And they had–They’re pulling this guy across the ground by a truck by his socks so there’s ropes tied around the socks and they’re pulling him across the ground by a truck.


Ali: What is–


Keith: That’s not how socks fall off! (ALI giggles)


Ali: Well, you’re–you’re–you’re pushing the example to it’s breaking point so that if somebody sees that and they’re like, “Oh, if it can stand up to a truck, it’s going to stand up to my sneaker that always pulls my socks off.” Right?


Dre: Mm.


Keith: I guess but–


Janine: Yeah, that’s how Cutco sells their knives. 


Keith: But– 


Janine: Like, here’s this ridiculous example that has nothing to do with how you’re actually gonna to use this knife but it’s very impressive.


Keith: Right, or like the purple beds like it won’t–If you drop a–If you drop a big glass frame on top of the bed, it won’t break an egg.


Ali: Mmhm.


Keith: But that’s not how sleeping works.


Janine: Yeah, that’s not the thing that I, you know. That’s not the thing that happens every night where you’re like, “Ahhh, I keep breaking these eggs in my bed! I need a bed that addresses this problem.”


Keith: “I need a better mattress.” I do have one of those mattresses and it is comfortable but I never broke a bed in it. I mean, I never broke an egg in any mattress.


Janine: But I mean, the thing you can’t do–


Austin: The egg mattress? Are we talking about the egg mattress?


Keith: Yeah, I’m watching this video, this Youtube ad, popped up of a–It’s like, “Hey, these socks won’t fall off. To prove it, we’re going to pull a guy by his socks with a truck, and the truck–”


Austin: What?


Keith: “–And being pulled by a truck won’t even pull the socks off.”


Austin: What?


Janine: But like, you can’t sell a mattress by being like, “This is a very comfortable mattress.” Cause everyone says that.


Austin: Uh huh.


Janine: That’s a useless claim.


Austin: Yeah, but what sells a mattress?


Janine: If someone said to me like, “Hey, buy these socks. They’re not gonna fall off.” I’m going to be like, “Yeah, most of my socks don’t fall off.”


Austin: Yeah, most of them stay on me.


Keith: Well, I can–


Janine: But if you show me someone getting dragged around like they’re going to get fucking dragged down through a bed and get eaten by a monster in a cartoon then okay, thats a pitch.


Keith: The thing–At least the mattress example, it’s like, okay well, this mattress can absorb a lot of pressure and that's what a person does on a bed is lie down on it, but with the sock thing, your socks don’t get pulled off by the toe. They get pulled down by the heel of your shoe.


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: Yeah.


Keith: So it’s an entirely different mechanism.


Ali: Yeah. Also, I wouldn’t–I would not want a sock to grip me in that way, right? I fear this sock now.


Keith: Yeah–


(KEITH and DRE laugh, ALI joins in)


Ali: That just seems uncomfortable.


Keith: Yeah, it doesn’t look…I mean, I don’t know. It’s probably–Here’s the thing, it’s probably a totally fine sock. 


Ali: Right.


Keith: It probably feels very normal and your experience of it will be very normal ‘cause there’s only so much you can do with a sock.


Art: (crosstalk) Now you’re making me think it won't be normal.


Austin: Hmm.


Janine: (amused)Mmhm.


Keith: What’s that?


Art: You say it like that, I think it’s not going to be normal.


Keith: Buy our extremely normal sock! Although that sort of that anti-marketing thing, that’s how you sell something on Indiegogo now.


Ali: Hmm.


Keith: It’s by saying, “Just some fucking socks!” And you’re just like, “Do you want normal socks that work like they’re supposed to? Buy normal fucking socks.”


Ali: Oh, sure. Yeah yeah.


Sylvia: I’m back.


Ali: Welcome back!


Austin: Welcome back!


Sylvia: Talking about socks?


Austin: Talking about socks.


Ali: Mmhm


Dre: Yep. Yeah.


Keith: Would you buy a sock if you knew that you could get dragged across the ground by a truck?


Janine: (overlapping) It would never come off your feet ever. Once you put it on, that sock would be a part of your body.


Austin: No, absolutely not.


Ali: Eegh!


Sylvia: Uhh, no.


Keith: Well, then don’t get Invisisocks.


Art: Yeah, if I’d be dragged by a truck by my socks, I want those socks to come off.


Janine: (lauging) That’s a good fucking point actually. (ALI laughs)


Keith: Oh yeah, it would be–It would be–It’s like a–It’s like emergency release cat collars.


Janine: I want anything that I’m getting dragged by to come off.


Austin: Right.


Ali: Yeah. Yeah, that would be a horribly dangerous situation if you like, were stuck in an escalator, which happens to people and is real.


Janine: That’s true.


Ali: Like if you got your shoes or your socks stuck.


Austin: I want those socks.


Ali: Oh!


Austin: So that I don’t ever buy them by mistake and put them on. 


Ali: Right.


Keith: No, you already–


Austin: So I would like to have them so I could lock them up all in a vault. (ALI giggles) You know what I mean?


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: So you want to buy all of them. All of the ones that exist in the world.


Austin: Yeah, this is my service to the world.


Sylvia: It’s sorta like a symbiote or something.


Austin: Right. A really shitty symbiote.


Keith: Keep your friends close and your enemies in the sock drawer.


Austin: Enemies in the sock drawer, right. My favorite mafia saying. (laughs)


Sylvia: I guess my answer just depends on what the socks look like.


Ali: Mmm.


Keith: They just look like normal socks.


Austin: But that’s a broad–Yeah, what if I need dress socks on or something?


Keith: These are no-show socks. That’s why they wanna make sure you know they won’t fall off. 


Ali: Oh, well that’s different.


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: Cause those…


Keith: I disclosed this. I disclosed this information.


Sylvia: I wasn’t here for that part.


Ali: Those suckers fall so you know, to have a certified no-slip.


Keith: But again, they don’t fall because someone is pulling at your toes.


Ali: Yeah, that’s true.


Austin: Mmhm.


Keith: They fall because they’re not–


Ali: Because they hit the friction of the heel. Yeah.


Keith: Right, exactly.


Art: They’re just talking about surface tension. That’s what they’re demonstrating.


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: (doubting) Mm. I mean if they're going to make that claim, I would want to see the truck dragging it from the seam in the back of the heel. That’s the danger zone.


Keith: Alright. Unfortunately, there's nothing really interesting happening on Indiegogo with socks.


Ali: Sure.


Dre: (disappointed) Mm.


Keith: There’s copper socks because you have to put copper in clothes now.


Dre: Yeah, sure.


Keith: Um. (laughs) I don’t understand why.


Janine: I have copper in my face shit. I got a new version of my face serum. They sell it with and without copper peptides and the with copper peptides version is like, $10 more expensive and also it’s blue.


Keith: Mm.


Sylvia: Oh ok.


Janine: It’s like blue in a way that's a little stressful to like look at because I'm used to all of my face shit being clear.


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: And now it’s just thick and blue and they’re telling me there’s copper in it, which is important for a reason.


Ali: That seems like that would be really abrasive to your face in use.


Sylvia: Yeah…


Janine: No, it’s not. No no no. It’s not like metals. 


Ali: It’s not copper. It’s like copper.


Keith: Hunks of copper. (ALI and KEITH laugh)


Janine: No! This is–


Sylvia: It’s like–I’m googling what the fuck a peptide is because I hear this word all the time and I don’t know what it means.


Janine: Peptides. I just switched up my routine so that I’ve got peptides and ceramides which means I’m never going to get old.


Sylvia: Oh!


Ali: Oh! 


Janine: I’m going to look 34 when I’m a hundred million years old.


Austin: Congrats!


Sylvia: Congrats.


Keith: Thank you peptides.


Austin: Thanks peptides


Janine: Thank you peptides


Keith: Peptides–Peptides are what you use when the people you sell to know that activated charcoal doesn’t mean anything anymore. (AUSTIN and ALI laugh)


Janine: It’s a different thing! I don’t know what it is but it’s–


(KEITH laughs loudly)


Janine: Peptides are short chains of between 2 and 50 amino acids linked by peptides bonds. Amino acids are good.


Ali: Oh, duh. Yeah.


Austin: Uh huh.


Janine: That’s a good thing!


Austin: Yeah.


Sylvia: I agree!


Austin: Mmhm.


Sylvia: I’m on your side here.


Janine: Ceramides make your face like a ceramic pot, right?


Jack: Like a ceramic pot?


Janine: Ceramides apparently have waxy lipid molecules. Ok, we need waxy lipids in our face. That’s–that makes sense too.


Art: Do we?


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: Ceramide is composed of sphingosine and acids.


Jack: Hmm.


Keith: Fake. Fake.


Art: Finally some fucking sphingosine up in here. (JANINE giggles)


Austin: I can’t believe we’ve never talked about sphingosine in Friends at the Table. (JANINE laughs) Someone spell that to me.


Janine: It’s my divine I’m inventing. The divine Sphingosine.


Austin: Sphingosine…


Sylvia: Sphingosine.


Keith: S-P-H-Y-N-C-O-S-P-H-E-N-E. Sphyncosphene.


Art: There’s not a g in there?


Janine: No its sphingo. Go.


Keith: Oh, sphingo. Oh, ok.


Janine: S-P-H-I-N-G-O-S-I-N-E.


Austin: Sphingosine fake, question mark?


Janine: Maybe it’s sphingosine (sine pronounced like sīn)?


Jack: Now I know what you’re wondering. What you’re all wondering.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: And that’s, is sphingosine wiggly? (JANINE laughs)


Ali: Hmm.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Jack: And the answer is…The answer is yes. (ALI gasps) Let me just put this in here.


Austin: Let me see it. Let me see it wiggle. Okay…That’s wiggling.


Dre: Wiggling.

Austin: Oh yeah, that’s wiggling.


Janine: From lipidhome.home.uk. (laughs)


Keith: I’d like–It’s not to say that this stuff doesn’t exist or doesn’t do anything but a lot of facial stuff or like serum things, they do what the weather does which is like, a newscaster or like an network learns the word–Like the term like, what was it? What was like, the snowbomb? What was that thing? What was that thing from a couple years ago?


Ali: Ohh.


Sylvia: Solar vortex.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Keith: Bomb cyclone.


Austin: Yeah, bomb cyclone.


Sylvia: Ohh, ok.


Keith: Bomb cylone. Right and so, bomb cylones. They go on all the time but it wasn't until 2018 or whatever that they–That the people who do weather on TV learned that it was a marketable term or figured out how to market it as a term. Does this make sense?


Austin: And you’re saying, this is what they do with various ceramides like sphingosine.


Keith: I think so. 


Austin: Mm.


Keith: That’s my guess is that they learned like oh, if we describe what sphingosine does, people will like that.


Austin: They know that sphingosine helps to–is a precursor to ceramide, then.


Janine: So they're not using that as a marketing term, though. That was from the W ikipedia page about the chemical make-ups of ceramide. 


Austin: I see. 


Janine:  The term they’re using is ceramides.


Austin: Is ceramides.


Janine: I think that there's some truth to that but I think the other thing is that also like, the science of things sells now whereas ten years ago, people were marketing their skincare stuff by giving it all weird propriety names like, “Now with regeneravo!” And shit like that.


Jack: Ohh, yeah. (KEITH laughs loudly)


Janine: (laughing) They don’t do that so much anymore because they know the thing–They know people are reading actual, you know, information about skincare–


Austin: (overlapping) I love the loose connection.


Janien: –And know what a ceramide is at least enough to be like, “I think I want one of those.” So they put that on the bottle instead of whatever the fuck. Ceramidan. Like you know, they don’t do that thing anymore. (SYLVI laughs)


Jack: That’s a ceramic dan. (JANINE and KEITH laugh)


Art: Yeah.


Janine: It’s very good for your skin.


Dre: Uh oh.


Keith: Ceramic Daniel, can I please have some more of your facial serum? 


Sylvia: Ughh.


Jack: Are we all here?


Art: Austin just…


Dre: Austin’s internet died, apparently.


Jack: Oh no!


Janine: We could talk about how retinoids are gonna make everyone look young forever also. Now that we–


Art: Finally someone said it!


Janine: Now that we invented retinoids.


(KEITH laughs) 


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: Or retin-olds? I don’t know which one’s the correct one to say.


Ali: I think it’s retinol. That’s the one I see in marketing, at least. I have an retinol cream but the thing is that like, you have to–(laughs) You can’t wear it if you’re going to be in the sun the next day or I guess you can, but you need a really strong…


Janine: That’s why they say to wear it at night because it’s like breaking down that barrier.


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: That’s the same with vitamin C, is that you’re not supposed to wear vitamin C during the day because it fucks your skin up a little bit. 


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: They make your skin more vulnerable. This is stuff that like, I…Yeah, I don’t…Because I’ve been getting like laser treatments on my face, I always have to be careful with that because that also deeply, deeply fucks up your barrier on your face skin.


Jack: Oh, sure.


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: So it’s just always like, no, just, I mean, you should be wearing an SPF anyway just always.


Ali: Yeah. Austin?


Art: My hypothesis is that skin is fake, that we’re gonna find out that–


Sylvi: (crosstalk) Okay!


Janine: (crosstalk) Oh, yeah no. It is. That’s why glass skin is a thing. It’s cause, it’s cause–


Ali: (sighs) Oh god.


Janine: People who are, they can replace their skin with glass.


[FADE OUT - 1:50:11]