Clapcast 53: Dollar Research (+Drawing Maps tonight!)
Transcriber: Kellar 


Austin: Did you know that there was a non--an unspecified currency symbol on the computer?


Keith (overlapping): What?


Jack: What, like a placeholder? Like…


Austin: Here, I’m going to paste it in--wherever we are. Where are we at? I’m gonna put it- I’m just going to put it in “dog pound”. This symbol. Which you can get by hitting buttons probably on your--“alt” and then a bunch of buttons.


Janine: Oh, that’s what that’s for!


Austin: That’s an unspecified currency symbol.


Keith: It’s so little, I can’t even tell what it is.


Janine (overlapping): It’s so cute.


Austin: (paraphrasing from article) It’s sometimes called a scarab. 


Jack (overlapping): It’s a little circle with lines.


Austin: It is. I’ll make it-- I’ll take a picture and send it.


Jack: It does look a little bit like a scarab.


Austin: It does. 


Janine: I feel like, I’ve-- I’ve encountered that in like, you know, early two-thousands anime text face culture.


Austin: Sure, yes, of course--


Keith (overlapping): Yeah. 


Janine (overlapping): You know?


Austin: --You’d do like (typing)--you’d do two of 'em in a row--Oh yeah, I--yeah, uh huh. I can see the face in my head now. You’d do one of those (typing))--


Janine: Yeah it’s--it’s like you have-- like scene--


Austin (laughing, overlapping): Yeah that’s good, I love it.


Janine: You’ve like, scene kid eyelashes or something.


Austin: Yeah, I love it. Do you know what it’s for?


Art: So, are you saying that this is like, from Atlantis or something? This is like, a lost currency?


Janine: What? 


Austin: What?


Art: Or like, a future currency? (Janine laughs)


Austin: What?


Art: What? 


Austin and Art: What? (Janine and Austin laugh)


Austin: Why would I--? What? If I knew that, then this is how I would have-- Art???


Art (overlapping): How [???] currency symbol


Austin (through laughter): Art, If I knew that, do you think this is how I would have told you? If I had found Atlantis--


Art (overlapping): I don’t know, sometimes you slowroll some good shit. Sometimes (Janine and Austin laugh)


Austin: Um. Uh, it is funny. What happened is, in 1972 Italy was like “Ah duhduhduhduh. Stop it. Get that American dollar sign off the keyboard. That’s America’s dollar sign. That shouldn’t be the default currency. We need a currency symbol to put on keyboards that has nothing to do with the United fucking States.” Uh, and so they introduced this to like, the ASCII, you know, group, and ASCII was like “Alright, we’ll put it in the computer but we ain’t putting it on the fucking keyboard, so--” And so now it’s just in there and no one uses it. Um, because of how the US dollar is still the, uh, I mean, debatably at this point, but the currency symbol of note for much of the world. 


Keith: Good try, though. 


Austin (overlapping): Nice try, Italy. Shout outs, Italy.


Keith: Yeah, nice try, Italy.


Austin (overlapping): Good hustle. Uh, unicode group did not--did not do you justice, but.


Keith: Well, keyboard manufacturers, anyway.


Austin: Yeah, exactly. Well I think that there--there might be one of those things where it’s like, “you can introduce it but then there might be--” I dunno, there’s--I wanna--I would like to read a whole thing about this, is what I will say. 


Janine: I think it’s just a bad symbol. 


Austin: Yeah.


Jack (overlapping): I just--


Janine: For that thing, it's too small! It’s not-- it’s not the full character.


Austin (overlapping): You can’t read it. Yeah.


Janine (overlapping): You need something that goes top to bottom on those numbers. 


Keith: I mean look at it--look at it next to that. 


Austin: Yeah. 


Keith: It’s so much smaller. It’s like half the size, it’s like a lowercase lowercase money.


Austin: It’s lowercase money. That’s cents. 


Jack: Now, I hear what you’re saying--


Janine: It looks terrible. Look at it. [???][a]


Austin: No, that looks sick. I actually love that (Janine noise of disapproval)--


Keith: I think that does. That actually fixes it for me--


Austin: You just said 8- yeah, that’s 87 credits. For sure.


Janine: It looks like I started--if, if, but if…mmm.


Austin: Or 8,000 for some reason. 


Janine (overlapping): Because like, if I was like, writing it though, it--it just looks like a little mistake. It looks like a little problem.


Austin: Well, the real problem--


Keith (overlapping): It looks like it started as something that you would punch into something, saying. “This is money!” (Keith makes a machine noise. Janine laughs)


Austin (overlapping): Yeah, well that’s the other thing. I can’t write this quickly. I would- this would be a pain in the ass to draw with a pencil. You know what I mean? In comparison to an ‘S’ with a line through it, which is so easy.


Janine (overlapping): Mmm, yeah. I bet--I bet this is the kind of thing where it’s like, most people don’t draw full ampersands, right?


Austin: Right.


Janine: I bet you’d draw a ‘0’ with an ‘X’ through it.


Austin: A zero with a-- but that might be a better symbol. 


Janine: It’s still just gonna look like you made a mistake. 


Austin (overlapping): ‘0’ with an ‘X’ through it. Yeah. 


Janine: That’s what I’m saying, there’s like-- anything you draw that looks like this, unless you’re drawing it huge, is gonna look like you just fucked up. Like you put the ‘8’ too low. And the X you just started-- And you just started over. 


Austin (overlapping): Wait-- That actually does it. What it looks like is that I’m saying “could I have 87.90 in X-men, please?” (Janine, Jack, and Austin laugh) It’s good, I like this symbol. 


Jack (overlapping): I, uh-- 


Austin: This symbol seems to have some sort of slenderman, uh, meaning and I don’t like that about it. 


Janine: It’s also--it’s not fair to say that no one uses it because I feel like--I feel like most people who have that like, thing on either side of their username somewhere that’s like, it’s a squiggly line of sparklies made out of like, periods and different punctuation points. They’re using that. They’re using that thing 100% of the time. 


Austin (overlapping): Right. You’re right, they’re using that. They’re using that. Jack? 


Jack: I gave him eyes.


Austin: What?


Jack: I gave him eyes. (Janine laughs)


Austin: Awwww, look at that guy!


Janine: He looks like a little-- like a little uhh--like a cell, or a virus.


Austin: I think it looks like a turtle. 


Janine: Sure.


Jack: He’s jolly, isn’t he? 


Austin: Yeah. A turtle--


Art: This is real uh, Jurassic Park tourist video character--


Austin: Yeah! Uh-huh. Yes, 100%. (pretending to be a Jurassic Park character) “TURTLE DNA!!!”. In this scenario it’s a turtle in my mind. To be clear, it’s a turtle facing--looking at you, and it has one set of its legs down and the other set are up in the air--


Janine: Its body is a land mine. 


Austin: That’s dark.


Janine: What? You don’t--it’s like, a Pokemon thing. Like, I bet there’s a pokemon that’s like a turtle with a landmine body. (Austin laughs) That’s a--what’s it called--Shuckle?


Austin (In a southern American accent): “Yeah, we got a landmine body.” (Laughter. Austin claps) Ohhh…Real ones only. Sorry. That’s--I’m not gonna explain what that was a strange half reference to. Uh, we should do a podcast. Oh. 


Janine (overlapping): I miss the music. Yeah.


Keith: I have a question, though, before we move totally off of this. 


Austin: Yeah, sure. 


Keith: When did-slash-why does sometimes the dollar have only one or both--


Austin (overlapping): I don’t know. I don’t know. 


Keith: I feel like when I grew-- When I was a kid, dollars had--dollar mark had two lines. 


Austin (overlapping): Had two lines. 


Janine (overlapping): Yeah, I did the same thing. I think--I wonder If that was because like, I mostly saw it on, like, bags in old like, Batman cartoons and old like, like uh Looney Tunes and stuff? 


Austin (overlapping): Yeah, you can still uh, get that, apparently. 


Keith: A bag of money? 


Austin: A bag of money. You can still get a bag of money. 


Keith: Where? Where do I go get that?


Austin: At the bank, still. Unfortunately.


Keith: Oh. So they just won’t let me have one.


Austin (typing): Hey, this isn’t…hmm.


Janine: ‘Why dollar signs two lines sometimes question mark”


Austin: They’ve done it in, in--


Keith: It’s gotta be a typeface thing.


Austin: It--I think it--well, yeah. They’ve done it in--on Wikipedia they did this, where like--ooh, yeah, let me copy that real quick, and I copied that, and here is what it spit out. It spit out, “dollar sign or--” brackets slash “display style” slash “math sfs big big display style math sf.” [???]


Keith: They’re tryna erase the double hash dollar sign.


Austin: Are they?


Keith (overlapping): Look, I mean--look.


Austin (overlapping): Oh, here we go. “One stroke vs. two strokes.”


Janine (overlapping): I think the answer to this might be like, weird racism? 


Austin: Oh, is it? Is it like the peso has two--


Janine (overlapping): Because-- yeah, well it says it's the opposite of like, the ninety--in the nineteenth--this paragraph is the worst written thing I’ve ever read in my life. I’m tryna condense it on the fly but it’s like, (reading/paraphrasing) “In the eighteenth and nineteenth century, the peso and the dollar were the same--” they don’t really elaborate on what that means, um, and then--


Keith: Equally valued?


Janine: They throw in some like, garbage trivia that I don’t understand the relevance of… blah blah blah (reading/paraphrasing) “the German name was thaler, shortened from Joachimsthaler, which became the English dollar.” I don’t what that has to do with anything! “The Spanish name was ‘peso’. The original abbreviation for ‘peso’ was a ‘PS’, and then it became ‘S’ with a line through it. And the version with two bars was the American variant.” I guess the ‘Joachimsthaler’ was--that’s what became the English dollar--but that doesn’t explain why there’s--why it’s an S--this is a terrible--this is terrible. 


Austin: “Joachimsthaler” sounds like a bad, like, philosophical, like--


Janine (laughing): I was saying that wrong, I don’t know how to pronounce it--


Keith (overlapping): Like “Occam's Razor?”


Austin: Like Occam’s Razor, or like, uh, yeah. Exactly. 


(Multiple people talk at once)


Austin: It’s like a basilisk-- (Keith laughs)


Janine: It’s like the middle-age version--it’s the medieval version of Joker’s Trick.


Austin: Joker’s Trick. (laughs) Yeah. Uh-huh. Joachimsthaler.


Jack: God, Joker’s Trick in medieval times must’ve been wild. 


Austin: Oh god. That’s--yeah. Uh huh. 


Janine: There’s just a man with a bell hat breaking your knee caps. 


Austin (laughing): Oh my--there was-- it’s that pee chair that Janine always talks about. (Janine laughs) Or water chair, or whatever. Or whatever it is. 


Janine: The chair at the--at the um (Keith laughs), Rosenberg Palace in--in Copenhagen. There was like, the king’s--one of the kings made it. And it was like, a chair where you would sit in it and then there’s like a little water thing that would release it and it would be like “haha, you peed yourself in the prank chair!” 


Jack (overlapping, laughing): Joachimsthaler!


Janine: And they have it like, roped off. It’s also like, in the first room you walk into when you enter that palace--


Austin (overlapping): Ohhhh, that’s so funny.


Janine: That’s like, in the center of this big beautiful park. You walk into this palace. The first thing you see is the king’s piss chair (Janine laughs). It’s really  fuckin’ wild.


Austin (overlapping): Everybody knows what that chair is, too. And the king is still--you KNOW the king was like, you know, uh--what’s a--where was this at? I dunno names-- Jim. (Austin laughs) “Take a seat!” And Jim--


Janine (overlapping): It’s like, ‘Christian’ and all that stuff.


Austin: Oh yeah, “Christian, take a seat!” And you KNOW Christian’s seen the king make other people sit in the chair! You know--


Keith (in a deep voice): “Oh yeah, okay. Fine”


Austin (in a deep voice): “Okay, fine.”


Janine: That chair has been around for TEN years and everyone gets a turn on it.


Austin (laughing): Yep!


Keith: Classic Joachimsthaler. (Austin, Jack, and Janine laugh). You know, some say that the Joachimsthaler dates back thousands of years (more laughter).


Austin: God. 


Janine: Oh, another--another good explanation someone gives in this Quora thread, which is incredibly, just, bad--


Austin: It’s Quora, baby!


Janine: This person who, um, lists their qualifications as “Been trading stocks since I was 12” (Austin groans, Jack laughs) says--(laughing, reading) “it’s all just a person slash company style! Generally, if you want to appear more creative or artistic you’ll put the extra line in.” 


Austin (laughing): Is that person--? (All talking at once) Is that person still twelve? What’s--? 


Janine: Yeah, yes. I--I can only assume. (Austin groans) 


Austin: All right. I’m gonna close all this dollar research. Let’s do a podcast. Let’s time.is. 


Jack (yawning): Too sleepy, now. We talked about dollars for too long.


Austin (overlapping): Yeah, I know (laughter). I’m also sleepy. I’m also there today. 


Janine: Hey, it’s fine, everyone! It’s World Standards Day! Get hyped. 


Austin: Oh. A meter is a meter.


Jack (overlapping): Oh, yeah! Standards Day! Today--


Austin: That’s what that is, right? That’s the…


Janine (laughing): I don’t--yeah! I don’t--


Austin: Is it not? I don’t know, this is like actually--


Jack (overlapping): And tomorrow--


Art (laughing): No, no it’s much less exciting than that! 


Austin: Ohhhhh, it really is, huh. Well, maybe there’s an overlap--go ahead, Art. 


Art (reading): “Every year on the 14th of October the members of the IEC, ISO, and ITU--” I don’t know what one of those stands for--(Austin laughs) “celebrate World Standards Day, which is a means of paying tribute to the collaborative efforts of thousands of experts worldwide who developed the voluntary technical agreements that are published as international standards. World Standards Day 2021 is about our shared vision for a better world.”


Austin: Yeah! Okay. 


Art (reading): “Learn more about the theme in this message--” I will not be reading it. 


Janine: And this poster said--also, just one more fun acronym, (reading) “Standards are for SDGs.” What are SDGs? What’s any of this? 


Austin: Standard Groups? Standard--


Janine (overlapping): Something Documents?


Art (overlapping): Standard’s Day--


Austin: Uh, Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainable Development Goals. 


Art/Janine: Ohhhh.


Art: Oh, that’s probably it.


Austin: That’s what it is, uh huh. (reading) “To which project to address the social imbalances of the sustainable economy and slow the rate of climate change are highly ambitious. To reach them, we will acquire the cooperation of many public and private partners, and the use of all available tools, including international standards and conformity assessment.” So it's like, it’s basically like, “Listen. We should all agree--”


Janine (overlapping): They put all the important stuff below the fold. 


Austin: They did. But also, I don’t know that I trust this UN group--or I guess I shouldn’t say it’s a UN group, or--I guess an IEC--it’s the IEC, the ISO and the ITU, obviously. Um--


Art: Headed by three people who look like they’ve never seen a camera before, which is-- (Austin laughs, coughs) getting photographed for World Standards day. 


Austin: Photos are hard, alright? Uh… uh, but agreeing, for instance, presumably like, what one emissions unit is, you know? 


Janine (sarcastic): This--yeah, that's the important work. 


Austin: Uh huh. “If we’d only just agree what an emissions unit is, then we can stop--If we agree where the poverty line is, then we’ll fix poverty!” That’s what it will take. 


Janine: “Every year we just have to dedicate one day to figuring out the standards.”


Keith: Austin, you say that like--you say that like we would just try to help people above that line on purpose. 


Austin (laughing): Almost, exactly like that! (Janine and Jack laugh). Ahh, bad world. Alright. Um, I’m closing all these images again. We have to do a clap. (Austin laughs) Sorry, I’m very distractible today. Uh--


Janine: We gotta agree on a standard, Austin, what’s--?


Austin: Yeah, let’s pick a standard. Uh, 45? Seconds? That’s the standard I wanna use. Seconds. 


(Quiet, then four claps can be heard, almost on top of eachother)


Austin: Clean.


Jack (overlapping): Can we do another one? I fucked that up. 


Austin: That’s what we get! We didn’t have our standards! Straight.


Art: Yeah, time.is is a very World Standards Day website, if you think about it. 


Jack: Mmmm. 


Austin: If you think about it, perfect! (Janine laughs) You think the time.is people were like, “World Standards Day! Let’s go! That’s right! This is why we get up in the MORNING, baby!”


Janine: They get the day off work. 


Austin (laughing): They got that grindset. Um--


Art: Yeah, it’s several other more important holidays that they’re just ignoring today.


Austin (laughing): It might be! Alright, uh--


Art: It’s Easter!


Austin: Oh shit! They moved that! (Keith, Austin and Jack laugh) Alright, uh. 25. 


(A pause, then four claps can be heard in almost perfect unison) 


Austin: Okay--


Jack: Much better. 


Austin: Yeah, that felt good. 
(Musical transition) 


Keith: Although, I feel like, famously… famously--I mean Dragon Ball Z is full of discarded characters. Um, uh, but Tien is one of the worst one, for me. I missed it when Tien was relevant. 


Sylvie: I do too! But it’s very funny that he’s just, like, “I’m not--I’m not dealing with this shit.” (Sylvie and Keith laugh)


Austin: He comes back for Cell, and that was kind of cool. 


Dre (overlapping): He comes back for  Super, too--


Austin (overlapping): Oh, does he?


Dre: Tien has a, like--


Austin: Oh, nice!


Dre: yeah, no--


Sylvie: Oh, good! 


Austin: Congrats to that guy. 


Dre: Yeah. God, calling Tien “Tall Krillin” Just makes me think of the old, fuckin’, like, Youtube video of the two Pokemon Go people arguing ‘cause the one guy doesn’t know the names. 


Austin: Wait, is this just, like, regular Pokemon? This was pre-Pokemon Go, wasn’t it? 


Dre: No, ‘cause it’s based on Pokemon Go. ‘Cause it's like, one guy’s like “Oh, yeah, I’m catchin’ all these Pokemon!”


Austin (overlapping): Ohhh.


Dre: and he calls like Dugtrio, or uh--Digdug “a floor shit”, and and then he calls Dugtrio “three floor shits--”


Austin: Gotcha. I thought you were talking about the Snorlax video, where the guy doesn’t know…


Dre: Oh. (Ali laughs)


Janine (overlapping): The “Chinese Myth Dragon” one. 


Austin: The “Chinese Myth Dragon” one, yeah. “That guy’s helping everybody.” That one.


Ali: True. True true true. 


Dre: Yeah. Look at Snorlax just holdin’ everything.


Austin: Yeah. Oh my god that old Krillin. I don’t know about all that. 


Janine: There’s also like a figure of him that’s like, it creeps me out because it’s like, a little bit horny? For him? Just, like, the way he’s styled is a little bit like, icky?


Ali (overlapping): Oh, sure.  


Janine: I don’t know, it--


Austin: It’s the look in his eyes. And also the grabby hands (Keith laughs).


Janine: And the deep, deep, deep “V”. 


Art: Yeah.


Austin (overlapping): That’s canon. I dunno, that’s Krillin--Krillin shows off his chest. 


Janine (overlapping): Not that much! 


Dre: Listen, I’ve read some comics with those hands and… yeah, that’s--


Austin: If I had Krillin’s body I’d find the thing that most appealed to other people and it would my chest, and I’d show it off. 


Ali: He pulled 18.


Austin: Yeah (Ali laughs). 


Ali: You know?


Keith: We know the thing that didn’t appeal to his wife, which was his bald head. 


Austin (laughing): His bald head. Yeah (Keith laughs). 


Dre: We forget Krillin is the strongest human. 


Austin: In the world! 


Dre: In, like, in the universe.


Keith (overlapping): Oh, maybe some people forget that! I don’t forget that. (Ali and Austin laugh)


Sylvie: I would never! 


Austin: I would never, yeah. I would never shame Krillin. Oh my god, why does this exist? One second, I gotta--I gotta post a thing. This is extremely funny. Why can’t I find a higher quality--here it is, okay. I don’t know why this exists. 


(Sounds of disgust, laughter)


Sylive: Oh my god!!


Austin: I don’t know why this exists.


Dre: I dunno. 


Ali (overlapping): Oh, because doesn’t he mention Krillin in that song? 


Austin: Probably. He probably does. 


Sylvie (overlapping): I love the fuckin’ logo change on Krillin’s gi.


Austin: Yeah (Dre laughs), he has the socks, the ch-- and also Chance’s hat--


Jack (overlapping): Oh his hat--


Austin: --has the Master Roshi School whatever school symbol. So…You know what? Krillin does love his wife, though. 


Dre (overlapping): Yeah.


Keith: Yeah, Krillin loves his wife!


Dre: Oh, Krillin, number one wife guy.


Keith (overlapping): From--it was love at first sight! 


Austin: It was.


Sylvie: Have any of you seen the Krillin fusions from the Dragon Ball Fusions game? 


Austin: No. 


Dre: Some of them. It’s been a while, though.


Sylvie (overlapping): I’m gonna post Prillin. Which is Piccolo/Krillin, and then can move on (laughter). 


Keith: That’s just Dende. 


Austin: That’s just Dende.


Keith: That’s just Dende (Ali laughs).


Austin: It’s cool, it’s cool--You know what? It’s cool! 


Sylvie: Okay, fine--


Keith: I like that it’s more of a--it’s like a sickly green, too. 


Janine: It’s…yeah.


Keith: Like, it’s not the Namek green.


Janine (overlapping): Hang on, I found one for Bluff City specifically that I’m gonna put--I’m just gonna pop that right here. 


Sylvie: That’s Krillin and Gohan. Oh, damn! That’s a good Krillin in the Bluff City chat (Ali laughs).


Austin: Oh, that’s a pretty good Krillin in the Bluff City hat--er, chat. Also, hat. That’s a Bluff hat. 


Sylvie (overlapping): Also in the Bluff City hat!


Keith (overlapping): Yeah, that’s a Bluff City hat for sure. 


Art (overlapping) Bluff City hat.


Janine: He thought he was buying saltwater taffy but it was actually just water taffy (Austin laughs). 


Austin: It’s just water taffy. Yeah, uh huh.


Jack: A new adventure. Funnel cake.


Austin (overlapping): I like that he’s wearing a suit out, like--that’s a short-sleeved shirt under there, for sure. I can’t see the shirt down on his wrists.


Janine: Or it’s just a dicky. It’s just like a fake--or it’s like a Halloween costume suit where it's all one piece (laughter). 


Austin (overlapping): Yeah, yeah. 


Sylvie: Oh, I wouldn’t put it past him. 


Austin: It all does look like it’s-- like it’s not one piece, but it does kinda look like it’s a onesie, do you know what I mean? 


Ali: True, true true true. 


Janine: It’s like a pajama suit. It’s like a funny thing that his wife got for him. Like when you dress up a dog (laughter). 


Sylvie: That sounds like their relationship.


Keith: I’m just looking at the various Krillins on um, on Google Images, and the thing that I love about Dragon Ball is that it’s a great resource  for hypothetical images of things (Ali sorts). Because there’s an entire kind of person who all they do is watch Dragon Ball Z and draw weird Dragon Ball Z things.


Austin: Mhm.


Keith: Like, there’s a lot of those people that--some people would draw from their 10 favorite things, but no, this person--this kinda person draws 10 times more but just Dragon ball Z. 


Austin: Good.


Janine (overlapping): It’s a lifestyle I envy. 


Art: I mean, these fusions look like they’re cheap Krillin NFTs. I mean…


Jack: Oh, this one’s awful, Janine (Janine laughs). 


Keith (overlapping): You don’t get stuff like this in a lot of shows. 


Austin: I found tall Krillin (Sylvie gasps), by the way. 


Keith (laughing): Oh my god.


Sylvie (overlapping): Oh, no I hate tall Krillin! 


Art: Yeah…


Austin (overlapping): It’s Bulma saying “Well Krillin, how do you feel?” and he goes, “Different.”


Janine: Where’s his nose? He doesn’t have a nose.


Sylvie: Krillin has never had a nose. 


Ali: Yeah.


Keith (overlapping): Yeah, he’s never had a nose. They bring it up, too. 


Janine (overlapping): Oh, well. Now he looks like an alien! Now he looks like a… (sighs)


Austin: Mhm?


Sylvie: Yeah, they need--his proportions--like, when he’s a funny little guy you don’t notice the nose situation, but when he’s a normal sized man it really stands out. He becomes a ninja turtle.


Janine: Yeah, he looks--looks like a pink Martian Manhunter, is that the one? I can’t…it’s--


Keith: He does look like Martian Manhunter, yeah.


Austin: Yeah. Mhm.


Art: I think it’s interesting that Krigohan gets a nose. 


Austin: That’s Gohan. 


Sylvie (overlapping): Well, yeah, that’s Gohan.


Dre (overlapping): Gohan has a nose. 


Art: Right, but--but-- how do you decide?


Ali (overlapping): He--yeah, I was just about to say this, ‘cause this is fucking me up. He gets the nose from Gohan?


Dre: Yeah. 


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: Yeah (Ali laughs, snorts).


Austin: In the Krigohan? Yeah. 


Keith (overlapping): I know this, ‘cause I watched this last year, but in original Dragon Ball, they make, like, 5 jokes about him not having a nose. 


Ali: Awww. 


Austin: How’s he breathe?


Ali: It must be tough!


Austin: Wh--is it just through the mouth?


Janine (overlapping): They coulda done it for him if they wanted to. They coulda given him a nose. 


Austin (overlapping): Like with the Dragon Balls, you mean?


Keith (overlapping): Yeah, if they wanted to not give him a nose, but then make everyone else also notice. 


Ali: Hmmm.


Janine: I mean the artists.


Austin (laughing): They could’ve wished for him to get a nose? Oh, this one’s rough, too. One second. So is the one Keith posted, which I don’t love (laughter). 


Dre: Oh, no!!


Sylvie (overlapping): Oh, geeze. (Janine and Ali sigh)


Dre: Who played--who played Krillin in the movie? 


Art (overlapping): Krillin in the Avatar Universe. 


Austin: Yeah. Uh huh. 


Dre: Was Krillin in that movie? 


Sylvie: I don’t know if Krillin was in Dragon Ball Evolution.


Austin (overlapping): I don’t think so. I don’t think so. Which is weird. I don’t really understand what that movie is.  


Janine: The live action one? Or--


Austin: The live action one. 


Dre: Yeah. 


Janine: No, I think that very, like Goku-Bulma--um,


Art: Krillin wasn’t in it? 


Dre: Yeah, no, he wasn’t.That’s fucked up.


Austin (overlapping): But Krillin’s from that stuff.


Janine: But that st--but that movie was about, like--was like a high school Goku goin’ to like, teen parties and getting bullied. That--that doesn’t matter!


Sylvie: They also kill Master Roshi, I think.


Austin (overlapping): Yamcha the Desperate Bandit is in that movie, so they--so I feel like Krillin should’ve made the cut! 


Ali: Mmmm.


Janine: That’s the other thing! Like, that movie to me feels a lot more like it’s Dragon Ball, not Dragon Ball Z. And like, at that point, everything--


Austin (overlapping): That’s where Krillin’s from!


Janine: I know, but--I know, but like everything’s off the table at that point, ‘cause that’s not the stuff that people are like, really attached to in the same way.


Austin: It’s fucked up, ‘cause Dragon Ball Krillin, young Krillin, is just truly--


Keith (overlapping): Is trash.


Austin: Has a different vibe--


Keith: He’s a weasel.


Austin (laughing): He’s like, a little weasel man, and it’s great (Keith laughs). 


Keith: He’s absolute garbage. He’s always cheating at shit, he’s always hoisting blame onto other people. This is a coward!


Janine: Yeah. See that’s the thing, is that Dragon Ball rules. I watched so much Dragon Ball when I was like--when I was like, 6, or something. It’s so fucking good. 


Keith (overlapping): Yeah. It’s a totally weird show. 


Austin: Sorry (laughter), I found an entire line of rolling trays that feature young Goku and Krillin.


Sylvie (overlapping): Oh, let’s go! Hell yeah. 


Austin: Like, an entire line. It doesn’t stop happening. 


Sylvie: God, I used to go to a different dispensary that had like, a hand painted art of Master Roshi smoking a bong for sale there. And this is the exact same vibe. 


Dre: Jesus.


Austin (overlapping): Sorry, this is where I live now! I live on--


Jack (overlapping): There’s a lot of these!


Art (overlapping): Oh my God! Wow. 


Austin: I live on this related images--I’m just living on the related images now. 


Keith: 30--30 years of getting high together. 


Dre (overlapping): Can you send me the link for that mouse pad? (laughter)


Austin: Oh, it’s gone, I’m sorry.


Art: Vegeta is really high.


Austin (laughing): Vegeta’s like, really high!


Janine (overlapping): He just had a long day at the office! He’s gotta unwind. He’s got that tie over his shoulder, like yeah, he’s--


Austin: It’s true. 


Ali: He’s also slightly more of a lightweight than Goku, but is like, trying to keep up. 


Austin: He’s tryna keep up (laughter)! That’s exactly it. 


Sylvie: Oh. No one can outsmoke the Prince of All Saiyan (more laughter).


Austin: Alright. We should--we should do a podcast. 


Dre: “There’s one thing a saiyan can never lose: And it’s his pipe.” 


Austin (laughing): Yeah, good. Great. 


Sylvie: What if the extending rod was a pipe? 


Austin: What if? What if it were? 


Sylvie (laughing): Okay, now I’m--Now I’ve got no more Dragon Ball Z weed thoughts. That’s it, I’m done.


Janine (overlapping): Give it a few minutes.


Austin: Where do you think ‘flying nimbus’ came from? 


Sylvie: Yoooooo!


Ali: Wow. Wow. I just learned something.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh (Sylvie laughs).


Dre: Wait--oh, okay I thought you were gonna say what you learned, and I was like “oh, wait, no. No we’re good.” (Ali laughs)


Austin: Uh…alright, time.is is the address.


Dre: Oh yeah, that’s a website.


Austin: It’s true. 


Art: Just put this [???][b]


Jack (overlapping): United Nations Day, today. 


Ali: Oooh!


Dre: Mhm. 


Janine: It’s Mol Day for us.


Jack (overlapping): [???] the United Nations. 


Janine: Molday.org


Austin: Mol day? Well wait, I’m gonna click it and double check that it’s--


Sylvie (overlapping): We’ve had--we’ve done this before. We’ve done this. We’ve done Mol Day before. I remember going through each individual mole.


Janine (overlapping): Have we done--okay, but their 2021 theme announced! It’s Ham-mol-ton. 


Austin: Shut the fuck up.


Keith (overlapping): Did we miss--?


Dre (overlapping): What? WHAT?


Janine: Ham--Ham-MOL-ton. That’s their 2021 mol day theme. 


Dre: Mmm. 


Austin: Um. 28 seconds. 


(A pause, then several separate claps can be heard)


Keith: Solid clap. Real solid. 


Dre: We coulda clapped on 4:20.


Austin: Damn, we could have (Ali laughs). Leave that to Vegeta. Let Vegeta have that.  He deserves it. 


(Outro music)




[a]With a number? No.
[b]~23:20