Clapcast 08: Brand Loyal to Happy Cow
Transcriber: Bren (@BrenOrRaven) 0:00:00-0:12:30
Dre: Alright, what is this video you linked, Janine?
Janine: It’s a good video. Just in case those cows come up.
Dre: {laughs)
Austin: I am back. What about cows? There’s cows now?
Janine: There’s cows.
Austin: Myeh there are cows.
Janine: Myeh.
Dre: I feel like I should get this for my parent’s chocolate lab cause all he wants is somebody to pet him all the time.
Austin: (chuckles) 
Dre: He’ll like come and like, lean on you and he’s big enough that he could like, push you over if he leans hard enough.
(Austin and Janine chuckle)
Austin: Okay so, it sounds like—
Janine: Sylvia’s[1] getting water.
Austin: Oh okay... Water is good. 
Janine: Mhm.
Austin: It’s a useful thing to have.
Dre: Man, this cow is so happy.
Janine  That’s a happy cow.
Austin: (dotingly) Mmmm.
Dre: Trying to figure out how much one of these happy cow machines is.
{Janine and Austin chuckle)
Janine: My guess would be like 2300 dollars or significantly more... but.
Dre: Oh, it’s like cow a— it’s like a cow cleaning thing.
Austin: mm.
Dre: Trying to find their sale video on youtube. Here it is. Aw man, there’s a bigger one called the Happy Cow Duo.
Austin: Oh boy.
{Dre laughs)
Austin: That’s two happy cows. That’s what that is right there.
(Dre laughs a lot)
Janine:  These are just repurposed car wash brushes right?
Dre: Yeah, that’s what they look like, for sure. (laughs)
Austin: (laughs) Well, y’know. You gotta get creative sometimes.
Dre: With the fully automatic cow cleaning happy ma-- cow cleaning machine Happy Cow Duo. the cow is happy, willing, and fully independently able to wash itself. (laughs)
Janine: I don’t know if I trust a cow to get all the right places.
Dre: The animals feel very happy and with a two brush machine and it is interesting to see how extensively they brush and massage themselves. (laughs)
Austin: Sure... sure...
Janine: Oh, kerbel dot com, that’s what they’re doing now.
Dre: Hah, yeah.
Sylvia: What the fuck is a Happy Cow Duo?
Dre:(crosstalking) Oh just watch the video, Sylvia.
Janine: (crosstalking) Oh, y’know.
Dre: C’mon.
Sylvia: I’m scared to.
Janine: I like the related videos are some kind of cow forklift and then, I think a cow on a roof?
Austin: Aw, these cows are happy.
Janine: They’re very happy.
Austin: Same to be honest, like. This looks good.
Sylvia: Oh, I misinterpreted what this was. I thought it was a weird airhorn.
Austin: I could see that. I could see that look like a weird airhorn.
Sylvia: Like, just from the thumbnail, right?
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
Sylvia: (crosstalking) Oh, this is wonderful.
Janine: (crosstalking) Cows love those.
Austin: Mrwah (Airhorn noise)
Sylvia: That’s why I was like, “Does it make a happy cow noise?” Like, what is this?
Austin: It sounds like a moo, and so cows go like “wooooow.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Oh, there’s competitors.
Austin: Oooh.
Dre: There's a J and D Smart cow brush.
Austin: Not as good as Happy Cow.
Dre: There’s the Bomatic cow brush.
Austin: Mmmm.
Dre: I mean listen, none of them are the Happy Cow, right?
Austin: Exactly, that’s true. That’s one hundred percent true. Um, okay. Are we back?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Okay, so um— 
———
Keith: Is this like a cookie, or is this like a cracker?
Austin: Good question, good question.
Jack: Uhhh, I don’t know.
Keith: (crosstalking) It sounds like it was a really hard answer.
Jack: (crosstalking) I— I— I don’t— 
Ali: (crosstalking) It’s all like a gradient over there.
Jack: It’s like extremely a gradient over here. I don’t know if I have the like— 
Keith: (crosstalking) Yeah.
Jack: I don’t know if I have the like fortitude to engage in the biscuit discourse, or in the biscourse, if you will.
(Austin and Ali chuckle)
Keith: I can—  I can help.
Art: Is it a sweet or a savory?
Jack: Sweet. Sweet, sweet.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: (crosstalking) Sweet? Is it— is it's— Okay. Then it’s probably more like a cookie.
Jack: Yeah. It has, uh, raisins in, but like dry.
Austin: That’s a cookie.
Ali: Okay, yeah.
Keith: Okay, that sounds like— Is it oatmeal-y? Is it like an oatmeal raisin cookie?
Jack: No, it’s k— it’s k— No, it’s kind of— No, it’s not—  it’s not oatmeal-y. It’s more shortbready. Uhh— 
Ali: Ohhhh.
Jack: And I don’t hate this sort of biscuit. 
Keith: That’s sounds pretty— 
Jack: I like this generally quite a lot, but I also have, um— I have a, uhh— There’s a like a pastry brand over here— Like, a supermarket pastry brand called Mr. Kipling. I don’t know if you have him in the U.S.
Keith: Oh no, we have Mr. Kipling. Yeah, for sure.
Ali: Do we?
Keith: That’s— 
Austin: No.
Keith and Austin: No, we don’t.
Austin: What?
Keith: No, we don't.
Jack: Okay, so Mr. Kipling— 
Keith: Does Mr. Kipling sound like something that would also be in the U.S. or just— or just England?
Ali: There’s lots of different kinds of grocery store.
Jack: There are.
Austin: That’s— that teacher— that’s that teacher from Boy Meets World, right? Yeah.
Art: That might as well be Lord Kipling.
Keith: I love— I love— I love popping down to the ex— to the UK expat store and getting some Mr. Kiplings.
Austin: (Using a British accent) Some Mr. Kipling.
Keith: Love to pop down to the store and get a Mr. Kipling.
Jack: I can’t believe that I consider you my friends.
Austin: (Using a British accent) Take a— take a trolley and hop down to the store .
Jack: You’re still going.
Ali: Don’t be mean to Jack. He’s* tired. (laughs)
Keith: It only— it only takes a tick. (laughs hard)
Austin: Mate.
Art: I was down in Santa Monica this week, and I guess I never noticed this before—  
Jack: (amused) You ass.
Art: —but there's like an entire block that is just British... stuff.
Jack: Weird.
Art: It’s like on the corner, they have a british souvenir store which is weird to have in California.
Jack: I don’t even know what our souvenirs are.
Art: I dunno. It was like closed. 
(Ali laughs)
Keith: Yeah, no, I was— 
Art: But they also had a restaurant that was like English breakfast available here.
Austin: (about the souvenir shop) From Brexit, y'know?
Jack: Hmmmmm.
Art: And then next to that was the same— still the same— like, they’re all called the same thing. And then they have a pub.
Keith: Yeah, they— they didn’t tell you that when you were voting for Brexit— you were voting for— to Brexit to Santa Monica.
Art: I did— I have seen a car driving in Los Angeles with a Brexit vanity license plate.
Ali: That’s— 
Austin: That’s terrible.
Keith: I saw a fully decked out Union Jack mini cooper one time.
Austin: Oh my god.
Jack: I’m not even engaging here.
Art: Well, that’s a stock thing. You can get that for— for nothing.
Keith: It had— it had overseas plates, too. So someone shipped it. Someone like put it on a boat. They put that car on a boat so they could drive it around.
Austin: Wait, is it— Wait a second. Is it Ye Olde King’s Head British Pub and restaurant
Jack: Fuckin’ Jesus.
Art: Yup, that’s it.
Keith: (laugh-crying) Ye Olde King’s Head.
Austin: (using a British accent) Ye Olde King’s Head!
(Ali laughs)
Art: Y’know, it’s pretty old. They haven’t had a king in a minute.
Austin: Establ— Haha— established 1974.
Jack: Ye Olde King’s Head Santa...
Austin: I gotcha. I linked it— I linked it. It's good. You got— There's a bakery. About King’s Head. Who we are: (reading in a British accent; Art howls laughing) “From its humble beginnings over forty years ago, Ye olde Kings head has developed a reputation as one of the finest most recognizable British pubs in the world.”
Ali: This is so mean.
Austin: (crosstalking) I'm just doing what it says here.
Jack: Y'know I— y'know that I— 
Keith: (crosstalking) Owner— owner and operator.
Ali: (crosstalking) Does it— Wait, wait, wait. Are there instructions?
Jack: You have someone on this call who has a British accent. I can just read it.
(Ali laughs hard)
Austin: (crosstalking) It's esch... But there's spelling— 
Keith: Wait, Jack, that wasn't you reading that?
Austin: That was Jack. That was Jack, I'm pretty sure.
Jack: Ah Jesus.
Austin: Uh, okay. Here's why I'm reading it this way, Jack. One newspaper put it, “Ye Olde Kingshead is like the Statue of Liberty on the west coast.” So, fuck off Britain.
Jack: Don't even know what that means.
Art: It's a beacon of welcoming— 
Austin: Yeah.
Art: —throughout the world, if you're British and in Los Angeles.
Keith: Yeah, that's actually the only place you can still find Tony Blair.
Jack: Please, British people don't go to American British pubs.
Austin: I just clicked photos— You're completely wrong because they have a photo gallery— 
Keith: Yeah, no, they— 
Austin: —of British people and also Adam Sandler. (laughs) 
(Ali sighs)
Art: (crosstalking) They're also running six nation's rugby.
Ali: (crosstalking) Oh, well, of course.
Art: So, I mean I don't think a lot of Americans are going out at whatever— 3 in the morning to watch— 
Jack: (crosstalking) Oh, they're famous British people.
Austin: This is terrible.
Jack: Who is Prince Monaco.
Ali: Oh, those are a lot of British people.
Austin: Oh, that's a character from this season, I'm pretty sure. Prince Monaco
Ali: Keith Urban isn't British, right? Wait.
Austin: No.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: Wait, who’s not British?
Austin and Ali: Keith Urban.
Jack: No.
Keith: Oh okay. (crosstalking) Oh, that would be great, y’know how you're always— 
Austin: (crosstalking) He could be Canadian.
Keith: —y’know how you're always discovering, like, that an actor from a major television in the U.S. is actually Australian? What if we found out— 
Austin: (crosstalking) That's Keith Urban. Keith Urban is New Zealand-Australian.
Ali: Oh wow.
Keith: Oh, is he really?
Austin: So, he's a member of the commonwealth.
Jack: Oh no. Are we maybe accidentally thinking of Carl Urban here?
Austin: No, it's Keith. I just clicked. I just clicked, it's Keith. Keith Lionel Urban.
Jack: Oh, Carl Urban is also from New Zealand.
Austin: Are they brothers???
(Ali gasps)
Keith: Oh, my god. Is that the Urban family?
Austin: Carl Urban... He is New Zealand.
Art: And their menu includes such, uh, steadfast and traditional British cooking as Locke's Bagel Plate.
(Keith and Austin laugh)
Ali: (laughs) I’m so— hooo boy.
Keith: Is it— 
Art: New England Style Clam Chowder.
Keith: It belonged to Locke? That's what you're saying, Locke's Bagel Plate?
Austin: Yeah, New— New what? New England style— 
(Ali laughs)
Art: I think we fought a war to not have to share that soup with the— 
(Austin, Ali and Art laugh)
Keith: It's I— I think we're just misunderstanding Art. It's not Locks Bagel Plate. It's L O C K E apostrophe S Bagel Plate.
Austin: John Locke's Famous Bagel Plate.
Art: The superfood salad bowl featuring avocado.
Austin: Oh, they're doing Valentine’s Day afternoon tea.
Ali: Oh, that sounds nice.
Austin: They have a selection of finger sandwiches, sausage rolls, quiche, freshly baked scones with devonshire cream and preserves.
Art: Here are their daily specials.
Austin:  Ffffffifty dollars.
(Ali and Jack laugh)
Keith: Woooow.
Art: Their daily specials include “fish buddy” which I have to believe isn't from this country, but also goes to “baby back barbecue ribs.”
(Austin, Keith, and Ali laugh)
Austin: Listen. It's hard to— it's hard to have a shop— a restaurant.
Keith: I heard they have a statue of Earl Grey.
(Ali laughs hard)
Art: They also have a British-- They also have a— a British BLT. And if you're wondering what the letters stand for in that, it's bacon, lettuce, and tomato.
(Austin, Ali and Keith laugh)
Keith: Hey Jack, do you love this?
(Jack groans as if they have been stabbed)
(Keith laughs loudly)
Jack: I feel like existentially, uh, uh bereft in a way that I wasn't anticipating that I would be when I joined the call.
Austin: The final thing on this menu is coronation chicken sandwich.
Jack: I mean coronation chicken is an actual thing.
Austin: Y'all should not name things after that.
(Ali laughs)
Art: What about a cheese and branston sandwich?
Austin: Who's Branston?
Jack: Branston is— Branston is sort of pickle— I don't need to do this.
(Ali laughs; Keith laughs hard)
Ali: Don't make him* — don't make him.*
(Keith laughs)
Austin: I have a final question. It says— 
Keith: I've never— 
Austin: It says that these sandwiches are served with crisps, salad, or chips, and now— Oh, chips are fries. Nevermind.
Keith: It's chips are fries.
Austin: Right? Yes? Okay.
Keith: Yeah, yeah. It's chips, salad, or fries. But uh the words are wrong— or the words are different. 
Austin: Yes, okay. We’re good. I get it.
Keith: What does salad mean over there, Jack?
Jack: Awwww jeez.
(Ali laughs)
Keith: Sa--
Austin: It's just a single big head of lettuce, I’m pretty sure.
Jack: (amused) Fuck you.
Ali: You would call it a wedge.
Keith: Uh, uh I'll take-- Ho-- Hold the rabbit food. That's what I would say. I'd say hold the rabbit food.
Austin: Oh my god.
(Ali laughs and sighs)
Austin: Anyway, we know where we're going next time we're in L.A. so.
(Ali laughs)
Keith: I wanna get me a fifty dollar fish buddy. (laughs)
Austin: Is a fish buddy a real thing? Cause I— I know someone who— 
Jack: A buddy is like a, uh, well I mean like— 
Austin: Is that like a chip buddy?
Jack: Yeah, it's like a— it's like a sort of like a sandwich— it's like a hot food inside a sandwich. Usually chips are put inside a sandwich. Um.
Austin: I hate that. Like, I know someone who loves chip buttys— in America. Not— This, uh, this is not a British thing.
Keith: I don't know what a chip butty is either.
Austin: A chip butty— spelled B U T T Y—  is a sandwich made with chips, I.E. french fried potatoes on buttered white bread, or a bread roll, often with added condiments such as ketchup, brown sauce, mayonnaise, or malt vinegar.
Jack: Yeah, it's like a— it's like a— 
Art: Pittsburgh is big on that right?
Austin: That sounds right.
Keith: Ohhhh.
Jack: But the thing is buttys are— 
Ali: You can get some stuff in there.
Jack: —the sort of food that is very good to eat when you are like, hungover.
Austin: (crosstalking) Hungover? Yeah, I can see that.
Jack: Or when you're like traveling, and you want something that is— that is food.
Keith: Oh, I guess— 
Austin: Yeah, I get it. I get it. It's like fast food.
Keith: (crosstalking) I guess I've had a fish butty before.
Jack: (crosstalking): It's like avocado toast out there.
Keith: (crosstalking) I've had—
[12:30— end of previous transcriber]
Transcriber: Kārlis (@townout) (0:12:30—)
Keith: I’ve had a fish sandwich with french fries in it, if that’s what we’re talking about.
Austin: That’s what it is, that’s what it sounds like it is.
Keith: Okay, I’ve had that, like fried fish—
Austin: The funny thing is now I desperately would like fried fish for dinner and I’m not gonna get it because I don’t live near Ye Olde King’s whatever. Ye Olde King’s Head.
Jack: And if you did, you shouldn’t go.
(all laugh)
Keith: I think that we all like to experience different cultures, and I think that’s fine.
Art: If you get over there, you should walk up a block, and there’s this pasta restaurant that imports their pasta from Italy daily.
Austin: Jesus Christ.
Keith: That sounds really expensive.
Ali: Is that— is that necessary? (laughs)
Art: Apparently they have eggs there that you can’t get here, and that’s what makes the pasta very different. It was delicious and very cheap, considering they must be spending a fortune on shipping.
Keith: Oh wow. Why don’t they just import the chickens?
(all laughing loudly)
Ali: Keith, uh, you’re a riot (laughs).
Austin: Ready to do a pod—cast?
Keith: Yeahhhh.
Jack: Bunch of villains, barely.
(Art and Ali laugh)
Austin: Love you, Jack.
Jack: It’s okay, it’s just, I have a very small— I just live on a very small island.
Art: Honestly, the size of this establishment is like most of the size of the island.
Jack: Yeah, I know! California is bigger than the UK by a factor of something, like— California is like almost exactly twice as big as the UK.
Austin: That’s wild.
Art: And this is like a whole block in Santa Monica, right? (laughs)
Jack: No, it’s just (laughs). You know what you can fit in that? You can fit the Buckingham Palace.
(Art laughs)
(Ali sighs)
Jack: What am I— Roll20, that’s what it is.
Austin: And time.is, also.
Jack: And time.is.
Ali: Oh, Roll20 as well.
Austin: Both.
Keith: I’m on time.is and I’m almost in Roll20. I was not auto-signed in because I have a fresh install of Windows, feels good, nice and clean.
Art: Oh, ho-ho.
Jack: (sighs) Okay.
Austin: Ready to clap at 10 seconds?
Jack: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Yeah.
(all clap)
Austin: I’m sure it’s fine.
Ali: That sounded good to me (laughs).
Keith: It sounded good to me.
Austin: I’m just not gonna say if anything sounds good anymore ‘cause I can’t tell.
Keith: There’s no way to know.
Austin: There’s no way to know anymore.
Ali: There’s none.
Art: Well now we would just release a podcast about embarrassing you about that.
Austin: Exactly! So I’m just not gonna have a statement on it ever again.
Ali: Oh relax.
Austin: Ever again. Even when it’s so obviously bad.
Keith: Well, sometimes it’s sooo obviously bad.
Ali: (laughs) Do you want to do another one?
Austin: No, that one sounded fine. That one was okay. But I, it— it’s fine. That one sounded within the realm of pretty good, you know?
Keith: You’re saying it was like a B-, C+?
Austin: I’d say it was a B, it was a solid B clap in my ears. But who knows? We could get to the production of it and it could sound like a D. OR like an A+, I don’t know. I really wanted to call it out when it sounds like an F from now on.
———
Austin: Let’s take a quick break and then we’ll come back, and I’ll explain why it’s a risky position.
Jack: Sounds good.
Austin: Alright, be right back.
Jack: Bye!
Keith: I’m having a hard time seeing why this would be risky.
Ali: Boy howdy.
Keith: Yeah. I think we’ll be fine.
Ali: Yeah, this is going smoothly and fine. I took a bunch of almonds before we started recording, and I was like, “I’ll have these almonds the whole recording,” and then I ate all of them immediately.
Keith: I have some almonds and they’re very good. I don’t have them in front of me but I had some earlier. These are whole almonds, I have two bags. One is lightly salted, but the other is honey-roasted.
(Ali gasps)
Keith: Honey-roasted almonds! Can you even imagine?
Ali: (laughs) I tried to roast my own almonds and I had to throw all of them away because they were awful, I was very upset about it.
Keith: I think you have to roast them at a really low temperature. I think that’s the—
Ali: So what it is is that I was only half-following this recipe but what I think you’re really supposed to do is just roast them dry and then put oil on them. But I was like, “No, I don’t believe that”.
Keith: Oh, ‘cause the oil will burn. Did the oil just burn?
Ali: I think the oil just burnt. Cause, while they’re hot, they’ll just absorb the oil. But I wanted to put them in coconut oil so they would be coconut-y.
Keith: Oh, coconut toasted almonds? That sounds fuckin’ really good.
Ali: I know, I know.
Keith: Too bad you totally fucked it up when you got a bunch of burnt almonds.
Ali: Completely fucked it up. And then they were smelling like they were burning, and I was like, “The recipe says 15 minutes, I’m just gonna keep—“ (bursts into laughter).
(Keith laughs)
Ali: And almonds aren’t cheap, you know. I had to throw all those almonds out.
Keith: Dude, almonds are fucking expensive as shit. When I bought these almonds, I bought a bag of cashews. Cashews were like a third of the price!
Ali: Oh my God— wait, cashews are expensive, where are you getting the cashew deal, ‘cause I’m—
Keith: This was Walgreens. I’ll say this, the bag of cashews was a little bit smaller. But it was like $4 for a big bag of cashews and it was $9 or $10 for the almonds.
Ali: I don’t think I’ve ever seen cashews for $4.
Keith: It was four bucks for a bag of cashews and cashew pieces. Halves and wholes.
Ali: I luckily got a Target sale and I got two pounds of almonds for $13.
Keith: I love cashews, cashews are my second favorite nut.
Ali: Oh my God, I think cashew’s my number one nut.
Keith: In front of almonds?
Ali: I’ve been forcing myself to eat more almonds because cashews are so expensive.
Keith: Oh, I think almonds are definitely more expensive than cashews.
(Ali sighs)
Keith: (typing) What’s more expensive, almonds—
Ali: Cashews are creamy, I should get a cashew, I should eat more cashews.
Keith: Cashews are really creamy.
Art: Definitely almonds are more expensive.
Keith and Ali, in unison: Yeah.
Ali: I just feel like I’ve never seen a cheap cashew.
Keith: You gotta find better c’shews. 
(Ali laughs)
Keith: Or maybe you are finding the better c’shew and me and Art are eating shitty cashews.
Ali: Yeah, maybe I gotta go for the junk cashews (laughs).
Keith: Bottom of the barrel cashews.
Ali: I just need to find like a farmers’ market. I have to stop going to Target to buy nuts.
Keith: I don’t love almond butter, like fake ass peanut butter made with almonds.
Ali: Mmm-kay.
Keith: But I bet cashew butter tastes really good.
Ali: I haven’t had it but I bet it’s fantastic.
Keith: Because a cashew’s definitely closer to a peanut than an almond is.
Ali: I made almond butter once, it was fine. It’s easier when you make it yourself.
Keith: Also, all that water it takes to make an almond? That’s not good.
Ali: What?
Keith: It takes a lot of water to grow an almond.
Art: That was a big thing when we were going through that big drought over here.
Ali: Ohhhhhh. I should be more responsible with the water (mumbles).
Keith: Listen, man, it’s not fuckin’ regular-ass people that are taking away all of the world’s water.
Ali: This is true, it’s not my responsibility. Coca-Cola can fuckin’, ugh.
Keith: Yeah, exactly. The world’s resources aren’t being taken up by the people that live on the planet. It’s companies dumping billions of gallons of water into sewage and whatever.
Art: That isn’t to say that you should not think about it.
Keith: Yeah, don’t not think about it, but.
Ali: I’m not gonna feel guilty over it.
Art: It is not your responsibility and neither should you just turn your faucet on all day and forget about it.
Keith: The reason it’s not your responsibility is because you’re such a small, tiny percentage, when there’s actual things taking actual big chunks and not doing shit. But might as well do your best.
Austin: Yo, I’m back.
Keith: There were signs all over— hey. There were signs all over my high school that advertised taking shorter showers.
Ali: Oh wow.
Keith: It was a rhyme, it said, “five minute shower not a quarter hour.” And I was like, “like hell am I gonna not take a 15 minute shower at 6 a.m. every morning.”
Ali: I’m actually gonna make a coffee real quick, I’ll be right back.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: Austin, what’s your favorite nut?
Austin: Pistachio.
Keith: Pistachio? Classic.
Austin: Yeah, I like a pistachio a lot.
Keith: Now, do you eat a green pistachio or do you go for the ones that are like, “we actually don’t put food coloring in our pistachios.”
Austin: Are those colored, is that what that is? I don’t know shit about nuts is what it comes down to.
Keith: I don’t know a lot, I do know that the green color in pistachios is not natural, it’s added.
Art: Whoa.
Austin: Huh, that’s interesting.
Jack: I just learned that, just now.
Austin: I like pistachios is what I know about pistachios.
Jack: Pistachios have appeared on this podcast before.
Austin: They have, they’re loud. I don’t have any with me but, if I had some, they would be loud.
Keith: I also like pistachios but I don’t eat them because pistachios are my mother’s favorite nut, and I was always disgusted by the way she’d eat pistachios, so I now don’t ever want them. Just the noise and ferocity with which she tore open the— she would tear off the shell with her mouth and then just spit the half into a bowl, eat the meat inside and then throw the other half of the— and I was just like, that’s too much, I’ll have an almond.
Jack: That’s a very intense experience to eat the…
Austin: I don’t mind eating them that way but I would never do that with a person in the room.
Jack: Oh yeah, there’s definitely sorts of food.
Keith: I’m sorry, I wasn’t a person, I was her son.
Austin: Right, I see.
Keith: She’d just go through bags of them, it was crazy. It was so much pistachio. And now I’m a cashew and almond guy.
Jack: Cashews are good, almonds are good, brazil nuts are alright, walnuts are really nice.
Keith: Brazil nuts are great in a mix.
Jack: Don’t love a hazelnut.
Keith: No? What about a macadamia?
Jack: Don’t love a macadamia nut.
Art: Oh, macadamia nuts are good. You can like what you wanna like, I’m not telling you not to, but.
Keith: That’s the Lamborghini of nuts, the macadamia.
Jack: Really?
Art: What a weird—
Keith: I think they’re the most expensive, right? That’s what I’m saying. They’re not sleek, they’re just expensive.
Art: They’re also very fast (laughs).
Jack: So, if the macadamia is the Lamborghini of nuts, is the Lamborghini the car of—
Keith: The macadamia nut of cars? Yeah.
Art: Oh yeah, cause a macadamia tree produces nuts only after 7-10 years.
Jack: Whoa!
Keith: It’s also the lobster of nuts.
Jack: Wh— I’m sorry?
Keith: You can’t fish a lobster unless it’s at least seven years old. That’s the lobster fishing rule.
Art: But did you know that lobsters are immortal?
Keith: Yeah! Lobsters, like, can’t die, kind of.
Art: Lobsters can’t die of old age.
Austin, Jack, and Ali: Cooooool.
Keith: Yeah, that’s how they find—
(crosstalk)
Keith: Immortal?
Austin: No, there’s another one.
Jack: The jellyfish does it as well, right?
Ali: Oh, what?
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Also, did you hear about that crayfish that’s destroying Europe?
Austin: I heard about that crayfish.
Jack: Oh my God, what?
Art: Oh yeah, Jack, look out. There’s a crayfish, and I don’t know if I should be using singular or plurals here, cause it’s basically, one lady crayfish has figured out how to reproduce asexually?
Keith: Whoa.
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: And now this crayfish is basically cloning herself and is doing it much more efficiently than old-fashioned however crayfish used to get made. I assume some sort of egg situation.
Austin: Probably.
Keith: Yeah, it’s eggs.
Art: And so she’s just aggressively reproducing.
(Ali gasps)
Jack: I’m reading about this now.
Austin: It’s wild.
Art: It’s not that for other fish populations.
Keith: I’ve never heard of that.
Austin: I bet they taste good.
(Ali laughs)
Keith: Oh boy. A self-spawning crayfish fry.
Austin: I haven’t had crayfish in a minute. They’re good as hell.
Jack: One of those in a pot and then—
Austin: You just get a gumbo from that.
(Keith and Art laughing)
Jack: What was that, Ali?
Ali: I was gonna say we should get a gumbo.
Austin: We should! We should go to Sugarfree, that place is so good.
Ali: I really wanna go to the paella place that is on that block that I don’t think I’ve ever been to.
Austin: Ohhhh, I bet it’s good. I’ve not been their either— orrrrr I might have been there with Toro[?] once.
Keith: This Smithsonian article says that lobsters being immortal is a myth but I don’t trust the fucking Smithsonian.
Austin: Yeah, who?
Jack: Yeah, no, what do they do, they make a very, very big… I was gonna say dinosaur but that’s at the Natural History Museum.
Keith: I bet they’ve got a dinosaur but it’s probably a dinosaur from a movie.
Art: Did you see that big dinosaur?
Jack: No, we didn’t get a chance to. Next time I’m in the city, I’m gonna see the heck out of that dinosaur.
Art: Oh my God, it’s so big.
Jack: Also, we should get going cause I am sleep.
Austin: Same, okay.
———
Austin: Alright, where is that at. Are you just picking a direction and looking for a thing?
Keith: You just went real robot-y for me, I don’t know if that happened to anyone else.
Austin: Oh, you also sound robot-y to me.
Art: Everyone sounds robot-y to me.
Austin: Who does? I do?
Art: Everyone.
Austin: Is Discord fucked?
Keith: I think we’re all—
Jack: Everyone sounds robotic.
Keith: Oh, it maybe just popped out.
Austin: No, everyone still sounds like a robot to me.
Keith: Yep.
Art: We’re all robots.
Keith: Do you want to try doing a different sort of call? Do you want to try doing a direct message call?
Austin: Yeah, we can do an individual call. Do you know what I mean?
Art: What?
Austin: One second. I have a play, I have a plan.
Ali: Hey? Hi.
Austin: Hi?
Art: Hi.
Jack: Still bad.
Austin: Still bad. One second.
Keith: Let’s all disconnect, huh?
Austin: Hi— oh? Good. There we go.
Keith: That sounds pretty good.
Austin: That sounds pretty good. Fuck, I left it. I need a reinvite.
Keith: I think that—
Jack: Austin just left.
(Ali laughs)
Keith: Yeah, he’s in the wrong one. There’s two, I guess.
Ali: Oh boy.
Jack: Gotta invite the DM back.
Keith: (clicking) Austin, add, there we go.
Austin: There we go. Hi. 
Keith: Yeah, someone else started a call literally at the same time, I think.
Austin: That’s what happened, 100%. Alright. But that other person was me and I left this one by— wait, Keith just left.
(everyone sighs and laughs, simultaneously)
Art: Why? 
(Jack laughing in the background)
Austin: He left the wrong one.
Ali: Okay, let’s all leave.
Austin: No, I’m just gonna add Keith.
Keith: Hi (laughs loudly). I swear to God, I’m trying to leave the other group and I left this group, I don’t know how.
Austin: Same thing happened to me, same thing. It’s fine.
Jack: I think I’m in a group now that’s just me and Keith (laughs).
(all laugh)
Keith: Yup, that’s the one that I had to leave, okay.
Jack: This group is called Keith Carberry.
(all laugh)
Keith: Oh, for me the group is called notquitereal.
Austin: Oh!
Ali: Ooh.
Jack: Oh!
Austin: Where were we? Did you get what I was saying about the bubblehand?
Jack: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
———
Janine: So what do y’all think about puffins?
Sylvia: Whoa, that’s not a question I was expecting today.
Austin: You can’t force it, Janine. You can’t just say, “what do y’all think about puffins”. 
Janine: That’s the joke, is, “I’m recording, okay, what do y’all think about puffins”.
Austin: Okay, now, animal time. I think they’re cute. I heard about that thing that they did with Star Wars.
Sylvia: If we do wanna force it, I do have a very weird animal.
Janine: Did puffins work on Star Wars?
Austin: Puffins worked on the newest Star Wars movie.
Sylvia: Were they stand-ins for the little bird things?
Austin: It’s the other way around. The reason they made porgs is because the island they were shooting on was filled with puffins, and they weren’t just gonna get rid of the puffins. So they had to come up with an animal that would be easy to, if there was a puffin in the background, would read like something else. Or maybe they CG’d over them or something. What I know is, it’s because of puffins.
Sylvia: That’s very good. I’m actually very into that.
Austin: They’re very cute.
Janine: Porgs? Or puffins.
Austin: Puffins. Both. Both. I’m gonna find this quote.
Janine: The lower half of a porg surprised me in a way that was a little unsettling at first.
Austin: How so? The fact that they have little bird feet?
Janine: I just wasn’t expecting them to be little bird things. I thought they were gonna be fat, snout-less rabbits or something.
Austin: Oh, I could see that. Welcome back.
Sylvia: Hey, we’re talking porgs. Welcome to Porg Chat.
Andrew: Hell yeah!
Austin: We’re talking about how porgs are puffins.
Janine: And also fat, snout-less rabbits.
Andrew: Oh, I thought we were gonna talk about the gay porgs.
Sylvia: Oh my God.
Austin: Is this a thing? What?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: Oh right, cause male porgs have a certain marking. There’s a scene where there are two clearly male porgs and there was like, “oh, the porgs are gay.” I don’t understand. I think a visual effects person just didn’t have the full notes in front of them when they—
Austin: I can imagine a visual effects person being like, “I wanna snick— snick. Sneak some gay porgs in here.” But. But.
Janine: I just think it’s so much more likely that someone just forgot or maybe the porgs were standing next to each other and someone was like, “wow, make those porgs romantic.” They were like, “okay.” Y’know? Sometimes stuff happens.
Austin: How do we know that they’re a couple? What do they do?
Sylvia: One like sniffs the other?
Austin: Okay.
Janine: Ohh, that’s it?
Sylvia: I’m trying to find it.
Andrew: I think they like—
Austin: Are they like cuddlin’?
Andrew:—snuggle or cuddle, yeah. They kinda nuzzle one another or something. I don’t know, man.
Austin: Almost there.
Janine: I still haven’t seen any of the new Star Wars stuff.
Austin: It’s worth seeing.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Janine: I’m sure.
Austin: Okay.
Sylvia: They nuzzle in the background. The porgs. I found this. Do I just link this in Twilight Mirage and have Ali just be like, “oh Jesus” when she sees it.
Austin: Yeah, that’s fine, do that. It’s just, I wish there was just a gay couple in that movie, instead.
Sylvia: Very same.
Austin: Instead of— I’ve said it before, but forced to treat scraps like feasts.
Sylvia: It’s the worst.
Andrew: Some JK Rowling shit.
Austin: At least this is in the book itself.
Sylvia: Right as I link this, Brock Wilbur retweeted it, so, y’know.
Austin: Wow, well, okay.
Sylvia: I didn’t even need to go looking for it.
Austin: Yeah, lined up. That’s really weird.
Sylvia: Is he in this chat?
Austin: No, he is not in this chat.
Sylvia: Don’t see it, don’t see him sneaking around, so.
Austin: No. I— no. 
Andrew: Wait, what?
Austin: Brock Wilbur.
Sylvia: I was just joking that a guy I follow on Twitter was in this Discord.
Austin: Alright. Let’s time.is. Almost forgot to do that one. That would’ve been bad. Let’s do 45.
(three claps and then one)
——— 
Sylvia: The heating vent in my basement is blowing directly at my face and it’s making me sleepy (laughs). And I’m trying desperately to just be like, “No! You gotta stay alert.” But it’s really comfy.
Andrew: Sylvia or Janine, do either of y’all have any chair recommendations cause I have to get a new desk chair.
Sylvia: No, I need a new one too, actually. Cause this one I have is kinda broken.
Andrew: Mine is too, and starting to really fuck with my back.
Sylvia: My problem with my one is just that it’s noisy. I’m leaned all the way back right now and I have to move in close to my mic to be audible because of it. Because if I sit up—(chair creaking) there’s a risk that if I lean back (chair creaking louder) it creaks more.
(Andrew laughs)
Janine: You also probably just have better access to stuff than we do. I got my chair on Amazon. One, there were not a lot of chairs to choose from on Amazon. Two, the chair I got was a decent price and looks nice, kinda like a brown fake leather and stuff, but it doesn’t have all of the settings I kinda thought it would, in terms of positioning the seat and stuff. The front of it feels like it’s a little too low and I always wanna tip it back a little bit. I wanna replace it, but can’t justify replacing it because it’s only a couple years old and is a relatively decent chair. But I looked on Amazon dot com when I was ordering chairs and you ughh—
(Andrew laughs)
Janine: There’s a lot more choice. I feel like up here it’s either incredibly shitty, super, super shitty, really bargain basement student desk chair. Or like executive desk chair. Or like gamer chair?
Sylvia: Yeahhhh.
Janine: Or like everything at Staples, which is just two pieces of foam and black.
Sylvia: I’m really worried that some day down the line I’m gonna crumble and just get a gamer chair, cause it’s my only decent option.
Janine: The gamer chairs look very supportive—
Sylvia: They dooooo.
Janine: And they’ve come down in price so much.
Sylvia: But they also look like they’re the pilot seat for a Nascar that is run on Mountain Dew. 
Andrew: Oh yeah.
Janine: A bunch of ASMR ladies use them these days because there’s a whole thing where all these game streaming women are also doing ASMR now? There’s been like a— not an encouragement cause it’s always been there, but there’s been like a lot more lately of like, “hey, you might know me from my League of Legends channel, and now I’m doing this also.” And they all have these gamer chairs. And every third video I see is a lady with press-on nails tapping on a book, and she’s in a gamer chair, and it’s just weird.
(Andrew laughs)
Sylvia: I mean, y’know.
Janine: They’re so ugly.
Sylvia: Just some of that GameSMR.
Andrew: They are ugly.
Sylvia: That played better in my head. You ever have a thing where you’re like, “I could say this,” and then, no, it doesn’t work.
Andrew: Eh, I think you did okay.
Sylvia: Thank you very much.
Andrew: Do I get one with like a fucking kickstand that swivels out, so I can just fall asleep in this chair?
Janine: Why do you need a kickstand on a— Oh, like a footstool?
Andrew: Yeah, there’s like ones with a footstool that pops out, and you can just literally lay down in a chair.
Janine: You don’t want to sleep in your desk chair.
Andrew: I don’t think I do either, but.
Janine: For one thing, it’s not stable. It has wheels on it, for one thing. And also shifting the center of gravity around tends to work poorly.
Andrew: Fair.
Janine: My dad once fell asleep in his chair and the chair tipped backwards, and he cut the back of his scalp open on a laptop table that was behind him.
(Sylvia gasps)
Andrew: Well, that sounds horrifying.
Janine: I had to get like six stitches or something like that. Scalps bleed a lot so it’s not a thing I recommend.
Sylvia: Yeah, I’ve had a minor head injury, and it is Very Bad.
Janine: There’s a lot of blood going up there, turns out.
Sylvia: Yeah. I had my fun scalp injury when I was— it was the first week, my family moved to Germany for a year when I was 12, it was my first week there, we just went to our new house, hit my head against the wall. Because it was a loft with an angled ceiling.
Janine: Ohhhhh.
Sylvia: And there was a window that broke up the angle of the ceiling. And my head adjusted to the window but didn’t adjust back. So I hit the windowsill. And 12-year old Sylvia, who is in a country where people do not speak English, immediately assumes that they’re dying. I put my hand up to my head and I pull it away. My sister’s laughing at me cause I hit my head and siblings, y’know. I put my hand up and I pull it away, and I’m like, “oh, that’s a lot of blood!” And she starts screaming, parents panic.
Janine: Just covered in blood, right. Yup, same thing happened to me and dad, just like a handful of blood.
Sylvia: It was awful. We had to get our neighbor, who spoke some English, well enough to help us out, to get to the hospital, because I think her husband was a minor league soccer player or something. And so, we went to this German hospital where I didn’t understand anything. My mom and my dad were there the whole time trying to— I was just like, “I’m gonna die, I’m gonna die, this is it. 12 years and this is it.” Weird that I didn’t realise I had anxiety until a few years later.
Andrew: Right? Yeah.
Sylvia: They give me stitches, and, the whole time, cause it’s just hospital regulation that they keep me in a wheelchair, but I’m like, “there is something wrong.” Cause no one’s really told me what’s up. My parents are both super jet-lagged and they’re just like, “yeah, they just need to keep you in this for a little while.” And I’m like, (distressed) “Why. Why do they need to keep me in a wheelchair?”
(Andrew laughs)
Sylvia: And I just remember this, because it was late, too, there was this open garden area that they wheeled me by, and I just remember seeing this one old man in the garden, staring into the middle distance, with an oxygen canister. And he looked at me and I almost fuckin’ like peed my pants, I was so scared of this weird German hospital.
Janine: Aww.
Austin: I’m back… are you okay…?
(Andrew laughs)
Sylvia: (laughs) I was telling a fun story about the time I cracked my head.
Austin: …yikes!
Janine: We’re talking about head wounds.
Austin: Head wounds, like you do.
Sylvia: Originally, gamer chairs.
Andrew: We were talking about chairs.
Sylvia: And then head wounds.
Janine: Yeah, desk chairs. I got a corner sofa sectional in here. It’s not a desk chair, it’s just the corner of what is supposed to be a full sofa setup.
Austin: That sounds so good.
Janine: It is extremely good. It fits in the corner very nicely. There’s a closet but I use it for garbage, so I don’t need to get in there.
Austin: Mmm-hmmm.
Janine: And it’s just, the corner of my room is just like a little nap cubby now, and it’s wonderful. I can play Breath of the Wild there, I got a little Bluetooth speaker, I listen to podcasts. It’s the best choice I’ve made in so long. Just in general, in my entire life.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I used to have a really comfy chair down here, but when my sister moved back for the holidays, my mom gave it to her. And I was heartbroken. That chair did break, but the way it broke was the wheels broke off of it. It didn’t break in a way that made noise, so I could still use it.
Austin: Yeah, it’s still a chair.
Sylvia: And then it was gone. And I’m like, well, back to the noisy one.
Austin: Alright. Do you want to be back? We good to be back?
Sylvia: I’m good to be back.
Andrew: Yeah, I’m good.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Okay. We are back. Um.
———
Austin: We should do this, though, let’s time.is.
Janine: Whoops, right, that’s a thing.
Austin: It is a thing!
Andrew: Remember when Jack didn’t think time.is was a website?
Austin: I do remember that, that was pretty amazing.
(Janine laughs)
Austin: For a while, too. For weeks. Maybe longer than weeks? I can’t even remember. What did he think we were doing? When we were like, “alright, let’s clap at 40” or whatever.
Andrew: He just thought you were saying, “the time that we will clap is…”
Austin: But what would that— yeah. Let’s clap at 55. For real. On this real website that really exists.
(three claps)
Janine: I— I did like a tiny baby clap because I panicked. It’s barely a spiff.
(Andrew and Janine laugh)
Austin: O-kay. Let’s do it again. Let’s do it at 10.
(three claps)
Janine: Okay, that’s a grownup clap.
Austin: Good, I’m glad. I’m proud of you. I knew you had it in you.
(laughs)
———
Austin: Also, do we need a break before we start properly?
Sylvia: I just need two seconds to go grab a sweater.
Austin: Sounds good. Go get warm. I’m gonna drink some more of this bubble tea.
Janine: I want bubble tea.
Austin: Mmm-hmm.
Andrew: That sounds good.
Austin: It’s good.
Sylvia: (in the distance) I found one on my basement floor, so I’m good.
Austin: Okay, that’s where you keep sweaters. That’s a good place. Alright, sounds good.
Sylvia: Hello?
Austin: Hi.
Janine: Hi.
———
Sylvia: I guess I should start recording then too, so everyone can hear Einstein’s barking. He just gets really energetic at night.
Janine: Same.
(Andrew laughs)
Sylvia: It’s weird, it’s cause he knows he’s gotta go to bed at 9:30, so he just fuckin’ loses his mind.
Andrew: (laughs) You’re describing a five-year old.
Sylvia: Yeah! It’s a ten-month old puppy!
Andrew: Ohh, yeah, okay, then, yeah. Okay, yup. Oh man. In some ways, I’m really sad that I never got to see my dog as a puppy, but in other ways I’m glad that I did not have to.
Sylvia: Yeah, he’s great, legitimately. But when I’m trying to do this, it can be a bit of a bother.
Andrew and Janine: Yeah.
(Einstein barking in the background)
Sylvia: Oh boy.
Andrew: What kind of dog is he?
Janine: Got a two-pack of laser pointers for Annie and I’m very excited for them to get here.
Sylvia: He’s a cockapoo, he’s a Cocker Spaniel—poodle mix.
Andrew: Oh boy, that sounds adorable. 
Sylvia: He’s like a little weird lamb deer, more than he is a dog.
(Andrew and Janine laugh)
Sylvia: He runs like a lamb, it’s very weird. Cause his back legs are too tall for him, so he’s still growing into them.
Andrew: Buddy (laughs).
Janine: I mean, again, same.
Sylvia: Oh, just heard his crate closing.
Andrew: Uh oh.
Sylvia: No, it just means my mom’s trying to watch TV and she’s not putting up with him (laughs). He also can jump really high, so he does this thing where he will grab— if someone’s doing the dishes and leaves the end of the rubber gloves we use face out, towards the counter, he can jump up and grab them.
Janine: (laughs) Why, why would you w—
Sylvia: This is the thing, he will jump at anything that is on the counter. So we basically have to be like, no, if this is not pushed in at least three inches, it needs to be pushed in three inches, cause otherwise he’ll jump up and grab it.
(Andrew laughs)
Sylvia: He’s great, he’s just a handful.
Andrew: Well, yeah. Like you said, he’s a lil puppy.
Sylvia: Yeah. He is learning really quick though. He’s very well behaved when we need him to be. It’s just when people are trying to do stuff that doesn’t really involve direct interaction with him, then he gets really needy and barky, I guess.
Janine: That’s probably the poodle in him.
Sylvia: Yeah. Cockapoos are apparently one of the more energetic, not allergenic breeds. It was tough finding him, cause we needed to get something that I’m not allergic to, right.
Janine: Yeah. Also, intense in terms of what they need regarding stimulation.
Sylvia: Our last dog was half-poodle too, so we’re kinda used to it. But, thing is, cause she lived for so long, she ended up being super chill in the end of her life. So we got used to that. And then we got this puppy and we were like, “Oh no! Dogs don’t just sleep all day! Aaahhhhh!”
(Andrew, Sylvia, and Janine laugh)
———
Austin: Alright, let’s clap! Wanna do 55?
(one clap and then three)
Sylvia: Really quick before I stop recording, I wanna mention this. The reference I wasn’t going to make with the bullet tracking shot was Korn’s Freak on a Leash video.
Austin: Thank you so much, bye, BYE.
Andrew: God DAMN IT.
Janine: Ughhh.
———
Keith: Ow.
Austin: Uh oh.
Keith: I burned my finger, I’m good.
Austin: (crosstalk) You broke your arm?
Ali: (crosstalk) Did you break your arm?
Keith: I burned, I burned my finger, I burned my finger.
Art: Oh, I thought I heard you say “broke”.
Keith: No, no, burned, sorry. I might have said it weird cause I was in the middle of having a burning finger.
Ali: Keith, are you playing with fire on your desk again?
Keith: No, no, I’m drinking tea.
Ali: (laughs) Okay, that’s the same thing for you, right?
Keith: But you could have asked if I was playing with fire and that would have been a—
Art: Has Keith played with fire during a recording before?
Austin and Ali: Yeahhhh.
Keith: Yeah, sometimes I— (laughs).
Austin: This is a common thing.
Keith: Is it a common thing?
Austin: Yup.
(Ali laughs)
Keith: Who else does that?
Austin: Dude, we have a whole thing with you spilling hot wax on yourself in a Bluff City episode.
(Keith laughs)
Ali: Oh, that’s true.
Keith: That was just me trying to move a candle.
Austin: It doesn’t get hot if it’s not fire.
(Art laughing loudly)
Keith: Sorry, the candle was in use. It was a nice— I was trying to have a Friends at the Table with a dash of aromatherapy.
Ali: I love that you’re doing this when two episodes ago of Tips at the Table ago you were like, “yeah, so, y’know, to keep focused on the game and to keep my hands busy, I play with fire at my desk.”
Keith: Yeah, I do. It was—
Austin: Wait, that was an answer to a question.
Keith: It was a really, really long list of things, and one of those things is sometimes, if I have a straw paper wrapper I like, I’ll twist it up and then I’ll light it on fire, and then it’ll slowly burn itself out.
(Art bursts into laughter)
Austin: So if you’ve missed past episodes…
Keith: It’s the worst possible incense, is what it is.
Austin: God.
Ali: Sure.
Keith: It’s a McDonalds straw wrapper incense, is what it is.
Ali: We want to clap at 45 maybe?
Austin: I don’t even have the site open.
Ali: Oh, you better hurry up (laughs).
Austin: Alright. Yeah, I’m gonna do 45.
(claps)
Keith: Wow. Two seconds notice, Austin Walker, with a clap, 45.
(Ali laughs)
Austin: I do a lot of clapping, I do a lot of podcasting these days. It was weird doing Drawing Maps last night because that didn’t have a clap at the top. I just did my own clap just set to my own time.
(Keith laughs)
Austin: So, no need for—
Ali: You did a solo clap?
Austin: I did a solo clap.
Keith: Well, you need to sync yourself up with your own vibe.
Austin: Yeah.
(Ali laughs)
Keith: You gotta center yourself, make sure you’re not spiritually desynced.
Austin: Exactly. Alright, are we ready? Are we ready to pod? Ready to cast a pod?
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Alright.
________________
[1] The name in the audio recording is no longer in use, hence the audio/transcript discrepancy.