Clapcast 71: Someone's Late!
Transcriber: vesta#7511
Dre: Okay, I’m recording now.
Janine: Okay.
Dre: We can talk about the Whopper now.
Janine: [chuckles] Um, so when I was a kid I would’ve only had kids’ meals, so I’ve never had a Whopper. I’m also not like a Big Mac person.
Dre: Sure.
Janine: I’m a Quarter Pounder with cheese person, which I think puts me in a better position to enjoy a Whopper? Especially if it’s like a Whopper with cheese?
Dre: Oh yeah.
Janine: So like, you know, it feels like, comparable. I do like the like, grilly taste.
Dre: I mean yeah, the whole thing about the Big Mac is just that it, its the sauce. None of the other stuff really matters all that much.
Janine: Mhm. And I don’t like sauce. I don’t like mayo. 
Dre: You don’t like rebranded thousand island dressing?
Janine: No.
Dre: [chuckles]
Janine: Nuh-uh. I’ll eat it if I have to, but normally [Dre: If I have to-!] places put that on burgers like so- they like glob it on, and it’s so gross?
Dre: Oh yeah. Yeah.
Janine: There’s like a really good famous burger place in Copenhagen that I ate at a lot when I was there. And it’s kind of just like, you order a burger, and you order fries, and you can ask for a little of special exceptions, but it’s so busy that it’s kind of discouraged?
Dre: Mmm.
Janine: And they do have like a mayo-based sauce, sort of a thousand-island dressing- like in that space, it’s like orange-ish.
Dre: Sure.
Janine: I don’t remember fully what it is, but, in that case, I was like, you know I’ll deal with it because I don’t want to be the person that’s like “can you do- can you take-” and there’s like twenty people lined up behind me?
Dre: Mhm.
Janine: And it was fine because they put it on- they put on like a normal amount. They- [chuckles] you know, they like moisten the bun, they don’t like put big gobs of it on.
Dre: They moisten the bun!
Janine: Yeah! That’s all you gotta do! All you gotta do is moisten it a little. 
Dre: That’s true.
Janine: I asked them to just not put any mayo on this Whopper though, so it’s [Dre: Yeah.] correct. The burger is correct. Actually, this is nice! This- [chuckles] it’s like, I would like put this- I think in Canada you get a little burger spoiled because Harvey’s is so accessible, and a Harvey’s burger is really nice? But it’s also really distinct from this. This is like, this feels like halfway between a McDonald’s and a Harvey’s.
Dre: Mm. What kind of-
Janine: Which is-
Dre: What kind of food can you get at a Harvey’s?
Sylvi: A Harvey’s is a pretty standard Burger joint, yeah.


Dre: Okay.
Janine: Sylvi, I think you’re on the wrong mic.
Sylvi: Oh- probably on Discord, yeah.
Dre: Or you sound far away, either one.
Sylvi: Yeah yeah yeah.
Janine: Or I was also like, keyboard clicky sounds and trackpad sounds.
Sylvi: It’s definitely just my Discord settings, hold on.
Janine: Oh my goodness.
Sylvi: Now you should be hearing what Audacity is.
Janine: Oh-! Yep! Yep.
Dre: Yeeeeah. Yeah! 
Sylvi: Yup, there we go.
Janine: There it is.
Dre: That sounds like my friend Sylvi.
Sylvi: Hiiii! Yeah.
Janine: There she is. I was telling Dre that I’m having Burger King for the first time in my adult life.
Sylvi: Oh really! I-
Janine: I’m having a Whopper. Because there was a two for- skipped the dishes, had a two-for-one cheese Whoppers and I was like, yeah okay.
Sylvi: Listen! A Whopper’s not bad!
Dre: Oh yeah! Whopper’s fine.
Janine: I don’t- I think it’s good! I would eat this before I eat a Big Mac.
Sylvi: Yeah! It- this is my- well also like, the thing is, because I had- I stopped eating beef? I needed- I like burgers a lot, so I just need to look at [Janine: Yeah…] a fast food thing I could get, and then the Impossible Whopper [Dre: Yeah!], and I was like here we go! So like, [Janine: Nice.] that’s like an airport staple for me. I’ve had a few layovers in SFO and I’m just like yeah, no, I’ll get a fucking-
Janine: An airport staple.
Sylvi: Yeah yeah yeah yeah!
Janine: How does that compare-
Sylvi: It’s just cause there’s always- yeah?
Janine: How does Impossible compare to like- I’ve never tried it, and I’m so curious? I know it’s like not the same, but?
Sylvi: It’s not the same but it is good. I like it.
Dre: It’s pretty close, honestly.
Sylvi: It is definitely-
Janine: Yeah?
Sylvi: Yeah genuinely, like I don’t know, the-
Janine: I should give it a shot one of these days.
Sylvi: There are a few good places in the city that do that.
Dre: The texture is definitely very close, it’s more of like a weird, a slightly different aftertaste?
Sylvi: Yeah I will say, sometimes the aftertaste kind of sucks? So like I have gum on me most of the- I mean I usually have gum on me so that helps. But!
Dre: Same.
Sylvi: Yeah, it depends on- I can’t remember if it’s- cause Beyond Meat and Impossible Meat are different like, proteins I believe. And I think [Dre: Yes.] one of them is the one that gives the aftertaste and one of them I don’t really notice? But, yeah! No, I’m a supporter of the fake beef industry. Both on Twitter and in food. 
[Dre laughs]
Janine: I thought you were gonna say I’m a supporter of the fake beef arts.
[Sylvi laughs]
Dre: That too!
Sylvi: No sorry, I didn’t say I had a B.F.A, I said I had an F.B.A
[Janine chuckles]
Sylvi: [stand creaking] Ooh sorry, my mic stand’s slumping a little.
Janine: Oh.
Sylvi: I’m gonna mute while I fix this.
[mic stand continues to creak while being fixed]
Dre: Hate a slumpy mic stand.
Janine: That’s true.
Sylvi: Okay, think I fixed it. What- the thing is, so I’ve been recording, I’ve been trying to record stuff off my amp? But the current mixer I have doesn’t have a- I don’t remember the fucking measurement for the type of aux cable that guitars use anymore, sorry. Um, it doesn’t have an in, so I just have to record it using the microphone? So I like put my like little practice amp on my desk, and angle my microphone down? 
Janine: Ahhh!
Sylvi: So that’s why it wasn’t like all the way screwed in [chuckles].
Dre: Is that a quarter inch?
Sylvi: I think so. I think so- I always want to say 3.5mm, but that’s the headphone jack.
Dre: Yeah, that’s headphone jack.
Sylvi: Yeah. I’m pretty sure it’s a quarter inch. Yeah this is mostly the, like cable types that we use for our- the like, mix that we have.
Dre: Sylvi are you playing the Street Fighter-?
Sylvi: No, I don’t have it. It- video games are really expensive in Canada!
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: They’re so fucking expensive, it’s disgusting.
Sylvi: I paid a hundred dollars for Tears of the Kingdom.
Dre: Jesus!
Janine: Yeah. Yeah.
Sylvi: That is what new video games cost here.
Dre: Oh my god!
Sylvi: And that was like, I did that because I got like a government cheque, like-
Dre: Specifically for Tears of the Kingdom.
Janine: Yeah, the Nintendo- the Nintendo like coupon thing, is like a hundred and twenty bucks. The thing where it’s like, you can buy if you have Nintendo whatever? And you buy the thing and you get two games? It’s like a hundred and twenty- no that’s not even right, it has to be like a hundred and sixty or something.
Sylvi: It’s. Fucked.
Janine: It’s some- it’s like, [lowers voice] it’s stupid expensive out here. 
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: Exchange rate is bad.
Dre: It was a hundred straight in America, so.
Janine: Yeah, it’s not- [laughs] it was not that.
Sylvi: It’s brutal. I’ve said this before to people, I’m effectively like priced out of current gaming unless there’s a sale? 
Janine: Mhm.
Dre: That sucks.
Sylvi: Or unless someone I know is like “I’ll get you that game!” But I have Guilty Gear, so I still am getting my fighting game fix for now.
Dre: Okay!
Sylvi: I’m excited to go back to my roots though, of being a terrible fucking Ken player.
Dre: Did you say Ken?
Sylvi: Ken- yeah I mean I need to look at the- I need to- I had the demo downloaded, I don’t know how extensive it is, so I’m gonna try it out?
Dre: I think Ken’s in the demo.
Sylvi: I mean I figure Ryu and Ken are. I wanna try- oh I get the new characters mixed up, I think it’s Manon, is the one who’s the grappler..? 
Dre: Uh, yes. The like, judo-ballet-French lady?
Sylvi: Yes, yes, I really want to try her out because I really liked Abel in Street Fighter 4?
Dre: Mhm.
Sylvi: And he was also a judo-grapple guy?
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvi: And I also wanna try Juri, cause, no comment. 
Dre: Sure. Yeah no, yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. [Sylvi chuckles] Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Listen, I play Street Fighter with a lot of gay women.
Sylvi: Yeah I figured!
Dre: So I fight a lot of Juri!
Sylvi: Yeah yeah yeah!
[Dre chuckles]
Sylvi: Fighting games are for the girlies, you know?
Dre: That’s true. And as a Cammy main, whenever people watch me fight a Juri, there’s lots of weird comments [chuckles].
Sylvi: I wish I was good with Cammy, I love Cammy. But I’ve always been terrible with her in every game.
Dre: I’m not good with Cammy [laughs].
Sylvi: Fair.
Dre: I’ll post something in gamer nation really quick.
Austin: How’s that game going, Dre?
Dre: It’s good! The world tour is very mid? 
Austin: Yeah, that’s a shame. I was looking forward to it and- I mean it seems like a totally fine goofy fun time?
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah!

Austin: But it’s not like the-
Dre: It will not teach you how to play the game.
Austin: Nor will it replace- or be as good as like the old Soul Caliber and Soul Blade world tour equivalent modes, right? Like.
Dre: Ohh. What could be?
Austin: Right. I mean that’s- that was-
Sylvi: Soul Calibur 3 shout outs.
Austin: You know?
Dre: Yeah.
[Austin sighs]
Sylvi: Remember how Soul Calibur 3 had a straight-up strategy game in it?
Austin: Yeah, that’s wild!
Dre: God! Yeah, I forgot about that!
Sylvi: That game rules!
Dre: Fuck! That game was wild! [chuckles]
Sylvi: Sorry I think I stepped over Ali saying hi.
Dre: Oh hi Ali!
Ali: Oh no worries, hi!
Dre: Ali, how’s your tummy?
[Ali and Sylvi chuckle]
Austin: Damn.
Ali: It’s fine.
Janine: Busted.
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Uh huh.
Dre: Well, Sylvi brought it up, and we were like yeah-
Sylvi: I saw the tweet! I saw “Brnine is tummy ache-coded” and I said like, aww!
Dre: As Sylvi very eloquently put it, like, that this is definitely true of Brnine, but, [Ali laughs] this could also be gesturing towards elsewhere.
Ali: Right. There was a longer draft of that tweet- this is the art of tweeting. [Sylvi laughs] There was a longer draft of that tweet that was like, “I was thinking that uhh, listeners might think that Brnine get a tummy ache in the middle of this episode because I’m a brave tummy warrior”. But thinking back on it, Brnine is tummy ache-coded.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Mhm, this is true.
Ali: And I was like, this- this is a better tweet, more concise.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvi: After we do the Hunter x Hunter show, can we do a 10-part instructional series called “The Art of Tweeting”?
[Friends laugh]
Austin: Twitter will be dead hopefully by then.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah definitely-
Ali: Well, yeah but-
Janine: Yeeeah. The Art of Posting.
Sylvi: But that- now- the Art of the Deal, holy shit-
Ali: Well no we, we make it the Art of Tweeting, we release our expertise.
Austin: Mhm.
Ali: And we all delete our Twitter accounts and be like.
Austin: Like immediately.
Sylvi: Oh my god!
Ali: As soon as it goes live. [laughs]
Austin: Like, final lesson.
Sylvi: Like what they do to their mechs in Gundam Wing.
Austin: Mhm! Yeah! [Ali, Janine, Dre laugh] Exactly!
Dre: Austin I will say this for the world tour. Because it just doesn’t even bother trying to teach you how to play the game, I’m totally fine playing it with modern controls on the pad.
Austin: Mmm, right, that makes sense.
Dre: Because it’s just, so low stakes, it does not matter.
Austin: You just roll through it, yeah.
Dre: And I feel like if I was playing it on my stick, I would be learning bad habits.
Austin: Right, right.
Dre: So.
Austin: Because you’re just playing it sloppy.
Dre: Yeah, totally. Well-
Austin: It’s basically a different thing.
Dre: And a lot of the mechanics just like aren’t in there.
Austin: Oh?
Dre: Like, you have to play for a while before you unlock like the drive and pack stuff. You like have to level up to get your drive gauge up to six, you know, etc. etc. etc.
Ali: No, not your drive gauge.
Dre: Yeah, man!
[Sylvi howls with laughter]
Janine: Up to six!
Dre: It’s important, Ali! It’s important. Burn out and get murdered in the corner!
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: You can get crumple countered?
Austin: Excuse me?
Dre: Yeah!
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Damn.
Janine: For free? Wow.
Ali: Wow.
Dre: Listen. When I’m playing online in Street Fight 6, it is absolutely free to crumple counter me in the corner. [Austin and Janine chuckle]
Ali: Yeah, yeah. I believe that.
Dre: That’s- that’s how good I am. [Janine laughs]
Austin: Brutal.
Sylvi: God. I don’t know if the heat wave also hit New York, but, we had that one day that was like thirty degree celsius here, and my allergies hit at the same time?
[Various sounds of exclamation and sympathy]
Sylvi: It was a fucking nightmare, dude!
Janine: Yuck.
Dre: Hwooar. Yeah, how hot is it up there right now?
Sylvi: Right now it’s nice. Right now it’s actually pretty temperate.
Janine: Yeah, it’s been okay.
Sylvi: But like last week we had a day where it got up like really high. Hold up, I’m doing conversion for the Fahrenheit people. It’s like eighty six last week?
Dre: Okay.
Sylvi: On Thursday or something.
Dre: Yeah, that’s what it was about here.
Sylvi: Yeah, but today it’s- okay hold on, sixty sixty point two according to Google.
Ali: That’s beaut- that’s nice!
Sylvi: Yeah! I like it.
Janine: Yeah!
Austin: That’s perfect.
Sylvi: It’s like comfy hoodie weather. It’s ideal for driving.
Ali: Cornflakes with sweet and salty milk donut. Alright.
Austin: What?
Ali: If you say so.
Janine: What?
Austin: What are you talking about?
Sylvi: What?
Ali: [wheezing] So-
Janine: Sweet and salty milk?
Sylvi: Yeah, hold on.
Ali: Yeah I opened up Instagram- okay let me link this tweet now that this is an event.
Sylvi: Mhm.
Austin: Yeah, it’s an event. [Ali wheezes and chuckles]
Janine: You did it.
Ali: There is a bakery in New York called Supermoon Bakehouse.
Sylvi: Ohh.
Ali: They run a limited menu- it used to be but they do it every two weeks now. 
Austin: Mm.
[Dog barking in the background]
Ali: And they show off their flavours because they’re all goofy every week. And this week is a cornflake with sweet and salty milk donut.
Austin: Mmm…
Sylvi: The thing about this is I’m looking at it and the cornflakes is the part I’m not interested in now.
Ali: Yeah. 
Janine: Yes cause it might be-
Sylvi: Cause I like a sweet and salty-
Janine: I just like- I only just realised cornflakes are not- and okay- I was [chuckles]- I know that cornflakes aren’t frosted flakes, but when you introduced this concept, my brain was like “oh, frosted flakes, it’s frosted flakes”.
Austin: Frosted flakes.
Sylvi: Yeah!
Janine: But it’s not, it’s just cornflakes-
Ali: Right.
Austin: It’s just cornflakes.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: And then like milk- thick, thick salty milk?
Austin: Well, you’re saying it like a-
[Ali makes an interested chuckle]
Janine: Like a custard, but like- [regrets word choice immediately]
Sylvi: Oh, word?
Janine: Uhhh, I don’t know!
[Ali bursts out laughing]
Austin: I meant- I meant the cornflakes are being used as like a crunch, right?
Janine: Oh yeah, yeah, like a texture.
Ali: It’s like a texture.
Austin: Yeah sure.
Janine: I thought it was gonna be like, crunched up and then you like roll it in the cornflakes or something? But this just seems to be like, in..? I don’t- I don’t know.
Austin: No, that- they-
Ali: These are pictures, not-
Austin: I think they’ve just tossed some extra cornflakes in you know?
Janine: Cause I don’t see where the cornflakes go naturally.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: I think they’re on the top, and around, and there are the little rounds all around it? Like they are really tiny. They’re not-
Dre: Hmm.
Sylvi: A ganache situation.
Austin: They’re not being flakes.
Ali: Right.
Austin: I think they’re meant to be like-
Janine: But this is like sugarcoated.
Ali: I think it’s like-
Janine: I can see the sugar on it. Or salt? Is it salt and sugar on the outside?
Austin: It could be salt and sugar- it’s probably sugar.
Ali: No, that’s probably sugar.
Dre: It could be flaky salt.
Ali: It could be.
Dre: It could be like a finishing salt or something.
Austin: The thing we need to do is find another donut that they make with cornflake [Janine: Oh I wonder-] to see how they- where they put it.
Janine: It’s confusing because they say cornflakes with sweet and salty milk donut. But then they say, our award winning hand-fried and perf- hand-rolled and perfectly fried brioche dough is filled with a sweet and salty cornflake milk. So, is it [Austin, Sylvi, Ali: Ohhh!] cornflakes with sweet and milk, or sweet and salty cornflake milk?
Austin: I think it’s cornflake milk.
Sylvi: Oh is this- this is one of those things where it’s like, oh it’s flavoured like the milk from cereal?
Janine: Yeah it’s like cereal milk.
Ali: Yeeeah.
Austin: But like, what a milk to pick. What a cornflake milk- like that’s not-
Janine: Yeah I don’t know-
Sylvi: Beats the shit out of somebody over this. [Ali laughs]. You want me to drink your fucking leftover milk? This is what we’re doing? [Janine chuckles]
Austin: This is what we’re doing now! This is-
Sylvi: Happy Pride I guess.
Austin: Uh huh! [chuckles] Yup!
Ali: You know.
[Sylvi laughs]
Janine: What do they do with all those cornflakes? Presuming that they’re making their own cornflake milk like, by hand or whatever.
Ali: Yeah they’re prob- yeah.
Sylvi: Did they like- they strain them and feed them to the employees. [Ali chuckles]
Janine: Booo!
Sylvi: It’s free lunch!
Austin: This is a thing. This is a- this is, I’m seeing people being like, cereal milk ice cream, and cereal milk etcetera.
Ali: Oh yeah yeah, this is-
Janine: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: So that is what it is, exactly right.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: This is, it’s a food trend right now, probably. [Janine and Austin agreeing.] It’s getting there.
Austin: And extra cornflakes are like, that’s a little bonus. That’s like, really that is about the plating, that’s about reminding you that there were cornflakes in that milk [Ali: Right, yeah.] that became the ice cream, you know?
Janine: So that’s the thing, is like I don’t know if the cornflakes are just like, on here for show, or if you bought this there would be an identifiable cornflake upon it.
Ali: I don’t think that there is!
Janine: I don’t think that there is either!
Ali: From the image it doesn’t look like there is.
Austin: No, but they say that there would be, in the- you know-

Janine: No they don’t.
Austin: I was looking at other- I was looking at other [Sylvi: Yeah I’m gold.] writeups. I’ve gone and done my own research at this point.
Janine: Ah okay. I see, I see. [Ali laughs]
Austin: This is Supermoon Bakehouse right? Is that right?
Ali: Uh huh.
Austin: So they say our award winning hand-rolled and perfectly fried brioche dough is filled with sweet and salty cornflake milk cream patisserie, and of course, some crunchy cornflakes in there too!
Ali: Ohh.
Janine: Ahh! Okay.
Austin: So they’re in there.
Ali: Of course they’re in there.
Sylvi: You should’ve bleeped the bakery name so we’re not advertising them for free [laughs].
Austin: Exactly- in a Clapcast-
Sylvi: And also because I’m still mad about the cereal mad thing.
Ali: Sure.
Austin: Are they here? Should we go here Ali?
Dre: They’re in NYC.
Ali: I’ve been there once, I like them.
Austin: Damn.
Ali: I’ve been there once, and then I ordered one of their, I think I ordered their Easter thingie.
Dre: Oh my god, this-
Ali: They also do holidays-
Dre: This rainbow croissant is intense.
Ali: Their shit’s good!
Austin: They’re open from Thursday to Sunday. 
Ali: Uh huh.
Dre: Oh man. That's when you know it’s a good-ass bakery. [Ali chuckles] When like the hours are very minimal?
Ali: Yeah, they have goofy hours, and extremely limited menus. So it’s like, it’s a- it’s trendy? It’s hip, I might say?
Austin: Let’s see where this is. Okay I know where this is, sure.
Ali: Yeah, it’s not, I- it’s not like, it’s just not in a place that I’m ever in?
Austin: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Ali: It’s between places I might go between.
Austin: Yeah, uh huh.
Ali: But I’m never like, oh, Supermoon’s around the corner, let me go there. [Austin: Uh huh, right.] It always has to be a special trip.
Austin: Yeah. It’s a little further east than I normally go downtown, you know? East at least anyway.
Ali: If anybody wants to come to New York and get a funny croissant.
Sylvi: Listen, that sounds good to me! [Ali laughs]
Dre: Yeah. I’ve never been to New York City, I need to go.
Austin: [overlapping and unintelligible] -I don’t know, you can just go to this place, you know?
Ali: You should come through!
Dre: Yeah!
Austin: Wherever we go for Friends at the Table retreat should have a good bakery nearby.
Dre: Sure.
Ali: Okay, yeah. I’ll add that to the list.
Austin: I think that’s that, you know?
Dre: I mean, we can just make the bakery be the kitchen.
Ali: We can also do that.
Austin: I guess that’s true. I guess that’s true.
Ali: But like-
Dre: I make a good-ass cinnamon roll.
Ali: Oh, sure.
Austin: Hold up, wait. I got [chuckles] I got another Tweet- or another Instagram post from these folks, it’s very funny. [Ali chuckles] This is so funny!
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Austin: Make sure you unmute, please! This plays The Sopranos’ theme-
[Sylvi laughs]
Austin: It’s so funny!
Sylvi: Theyre playing The Sopranos’ theme at Supermoon Bakehouse.
Janine: For the next two weeks, we’re gonna shoot the holes out of our donuts.
[Ali and Dre chuckle]
Dre: Has anyone texted Keith?
Janine: Oh, Calamansi-
Ali: Let me text him.
Austin: Calamansi- can you-? Yeah.
Dre: I know you added him on Discord.
Ali: Yeah. Let me get him real quick, hold on.
Sylvi: Ooh, that ube eclair looks good though.
[Dre chuckles]
Austin: I’ll fucking die. This-
Sylvi: I can’t keep watching this. I’m gonna get-
Janine: Oh my god.
Austin: [unintelligible] -the other one, don’t worry.
Sylvi: Oh my god!
Austin: People can’t hear it, but it’s the Seinfeld theme.
Dre: All the bass.
Austin: [making bass sounds] Bom bom bom. Bom, bom, bom bom bom bom. Bom. Bom bomdom bom bom bom. Bom bom!
Janine: It’s actually kind of a shame that Seinfeld wasn’t around to see the birth of the cruffin? Cause I feel like they would’ve had a lot to say about it.
Austin: They would’ve done a whole cruffin episode.
Sylvi: But you meant the guy! I was like, he’s still alive!
[Austin and Janine laugh]
Ali: Yeah they- I’ve followed them for a bit and they started doing this funny like, TV show-
Austin: I can’t believe Jerry Seinfeld died before the cruffin.
Sylvi: R.I.P Jerry Seinfeld you would’ve loved this.
Dre: If only he had.
Sylvi: Damn.
Austin: Damn!
Dre: Oh are we out here protecting the sanctity of Jerry Seinfeld?
[Austin, Janine groan in protest]
Sylvi: No, I’m out here not knowing how litigious Jerry Seinfeld is.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Jerry’s like, “here’s to sucking” you know what I mean?
Ali: Uh huh.
Dre: Sure.
Austin: He sucks.
Ali: [sighs] Yeah.
Austin: But! I will say, once you put a guy in a room with Ricky Gervais, and he’s the- and he’s the- and it’s like Ricky Gervais and Louis C.K.? You’re-
Sylvi: Oh my god that clip.
Ali: Oh yeah.
Austin: That clip, you know that clip I’m talking about?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Uh huh.
Austin: It’s like, you know what, Jerry knew where not to step in that conversation.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: And it’s easy to look better than those two motherfuckers. Bad. Bad place to be.
Ali: Mmm.
Dre: I’m gonna run to the bathroom while we’re waiting for Keith.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Did Keith pick up?
Ali: I texted him?
Austin: Oh okay.
Ali: I mean maybe give him 10 and then maybe call him I guess?
Austin: Sounds good.
Janine: I’m gonna make a little coffee [chuckles].
Ali: Yeah!
Austin: That’s a good idea. Maybe I should get a coffee.
Janine: I came up here with fruit juice, and that’s fucking foolish.
Ali: Yeah that’s not gonna do ya.
Janine: No. It’s nice fruit juice, but it’s not gonna do me.
Sylvi: I had a putrid energy drink before this.
Ali: Oooh!
Janine: Is that a new brand?
Sylvi: It was the lame raspberry flavour.
Austin: Yeah!
Sylvi: I wish. I don’t know, they was on sale, like last night I went to Shoppers and it was on sale so I just grabbed- I was like sure, it’s blue, I’ll try it. I like the blue Monster, don’t like the blue Bang.
Austin: Oh, sure. Mmm.
Ali: Mmm.
Sylvi: It- yeah I don’t know, it felt like, like if there was a- if this was like a 90s movie about like a evil energy drink that transforms people, I would- I would be exploding right now, you know? 
Ali: Woah.
Austin: Yeah yeah yeah.
Sylvi: Like going full Tetsuo. Cause it tastes like that. [Ali chuckles]
Austin: Going North American Tetsuo which is like,
Sylvi: Yeah yeah yeah.
Austin: Grosser but not in a cool way?
Sylvi: No, it’s much less [Austin: Not much practical effects.] interesting honestly. Doesn’t do the weird big baby thing.
Austin: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Sylvi: It’s just a lot of intestines.
Austin: Yeah, exactly. Alright, I’m gonna get coffee also, I’ll be right back.
Sylvi: Okay.
Ali: Yeah!
Dre: So Sylvi, since you said you’re not into the blue Bang, does that mean you’re not into Sonic Fox?
Sylvi: [exhales] Shut the fuck up Dre. 
[Dre laughs]
Ali: Is that- is that a Sonic Fox collab? Or is that just Sonic Fox-
Dre: No, Sonic Fox wears a blue fursuit.
Ali: Ohh. Ohhh. They’re not like, sponsoring that-
Dre: No, I don’t think so.
Ali: This isn’t a collab.
Dre: That joke was either gonna be Avatar people or Sonic Fox.
Ali: Sure.
Sylvi: I do have distaste for Avatar people.
Dre: Same.
Sylvi: Both the fans and the film. [Ali chuckles] I tried- I legally acquired Avatar 2, and I tried watching it, and it felt like I was watching someone do like, like a benchmark test for crisis? [Ali and Dre laugh] Like, one of the least artful things I’ve ever seen? Truly despicable filmmaking by Jimmy Cameron, a guy that I already don’t like that much.
Ali: Sure. Did I tell y’all about the time a- my manager at Best Buy told me that I like, would have trouble relating to people in my generation because I hadn’t seen Avatar [Sylvi laughs] and it was such a cultural event, that he was like, it’s the most seen ever, it was a huge movie, you didn’t see it, now you’re not gonna have this touchstone. And I was like,
Sylvi: Everybody’s been talking about it.
Ali: I think I’m good. Like, [laughs] I, yeah, it was a very bizarre conversation. But that’s like, that’s the per- like the only, it’s not the only reason Avatar was made, but the only people who cared about Avatar, were people who were like, I just spent $4,000 on the first flatscreen TV ever made, and the first BluRay player, and I’m gonna watch Avatar at home [chuckles]. [Sylvi gasps with laughter] So.
Sylvi: Settling in, cracking open a cold one and enjoying the thrilling journey of Jake Sully. [Ali laughs]
Ali: And then the second one came out, and there was that guy who was like, Avatar 2 is just fine, it’s an Avatar movie. And it’s like-
Sylvi: There was only one of those!
Ali: What does that mean!
Sylvi: Yeah, wait! There’s! There is very little precedent! Do you mean it’s a bloated movie, because yeah I guess that’s the, the throughline?
Ali: Yeah, I mean.
Sylvi: What the fuck?
Ali: It’s a favourite dream of tech bros, like, I get it.
Sylvi: I don’t understand it at all.
Ali: I’m being gaslit about Avatar’s place in society.
Sylvi: I for real, for real [Ali and Dre chuckle] every time people talk about it, that’s how I feel. It makes me feel like I’m being punked, or like I’m- there’s some sort of Truman Show situation? Like, I don’t know, I don’t get it.
Janine: Avatar’s cultural impact to me is like, how interesting is your Halloween going to be? [Ali and Dre chuckle] Like in that skit, it’s like, is someone gonna show up at the party who- cause to me the Avatar costume is the biggest like, I wanna make an impact but I don’t actually know how to do this thing? [Sylvi laughs] Like I don’t know how to costume good? So I’ll be an Avatar person.
Sylvi: I’m trying to start a conversation.
Janine: Cause I feel like the Avatar costume, like the Na'vi costume had more reach than-
Dre: It’s just painting yourself blue and putting on a loincloth, right?
Janine: Yep. Yeah, you can be-
Sylvi: Or you can be even lazier, you can just put on like your fucking colleague like sweater and be Sigourney Weaver.
Janine: [amused] Well, that’s not usually what people go in-
Sylvi: I only know about that cause it’s Sigourney Weaver.
[Ali chuckles]
Dre: Yeah no, that’s fair. That’s fair.
Sylvi: They made her- I also did- shout out to [Dre: Isn’t Sigourney Weaver a blue person in the movie?] friend of the show LB’s podcast for doing an entire episode on Avatar trivia? [Ali laughs] Because that’s how I know most of this shit. If You’re Driving, Close Your Eyes, I feel like we should mention them? But yeah they talk- I need to find this image of Sigourney Weaver Avatar, cause she- they made a giant version of like her fucking Stanford t-shirt.
Dre: Yeah here. I found it. I have found it.
Ali: Oh, I’m thinking I’ve seen that. Yeah.
Sylvi: We need- Keith needs to get here soon. [Ali laughs] Keith needs to get here soon.
Dre: [high-pitched] Why is her stomach so looong in this picture!
Sylvi: You know.
Janine: That’s. Cause they-
Sylvi: You know.
Dre: That’s blue people.
Janine: Yeah. The Na’vi felt like very designed for a character look and not necessarily for like, here’s what a species could look like look.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: [on call with Keith] Hi! What’s up? [chuckles]
Janine: Very vibe-based as an alien race to me?
Dre: Sure.
Sylvi: Which usually I’m behind. But it’s just everything about this-
Ali: [unintelligible, to Keith] -broke? [laughs]
Dre: Yeah, but these are James Cameron vibes, so.
Sylvi: Yeah, exactly.
Ali: [chuckling] I believe that, yeah. It’s all good. Yeah, take your time, bye!
Sylvi: He did Terminator, right? I haven’t seen Terminator.
Ali: I think I- is Terminator Cameron or am I just thinking Robocop? [chuckles]
Sylvi: This is like the thing, is like I don’t know if-
Janine: Terminator is Cameron and some of them are okay. [Ali: Cause Robocop’s good.] They’re like, if you want to watch like an eighties action thing? It’s fine.
Sylvi: Yeah. I- the only one I’ve seen is Terminator 3 [laughs].
Dre: [overlapping] I think Terminator 1 & 2 are pretty good, like agreeably, like that’s a consensus thing right?
Janine: Actually, I have a movie that I can recommend to you that’s like Terminator, but better- I gotta get the name right though.
Dre: This is a Transmorphers situation?
Janine: No, not quite [chuckles]. [Dre laughs] I have to- oh, I have to [typing sounds], Atarax[1] or something?
Sylvi: Woah, what?
Janine: Uhhh, I watched the Rifftrax of this recently, and like- it- I would recommend watching it without that? But- fuck, it’s like, it’s like two alien cops- there’s like a part- they’re like partners, and then one of them goes bad, and then goes to Earth because he has [Sylvi: Okay?!] to make the Culmator, because the Culmator [Dre: Excuse me?!] will have the Anti-Life Equation, and it's basically just like, bad Terminator. I’ll figure out the name.
Dre: Keith lives!
Ali: Hi Keith!
Janine: Can’t hear you-
Keith: Hello!
Janine: Oh there we go [chuckles].
Keith: Sorry I’m late. I was asleep.
Ali: Yeah, my guy was napping.
[Sylvi and Ali laugh] [Janine chuckles]
Dre: I figured.
Sylvi: I fucking knew it!


Dre: It was either Keith is dead or Keith is asleep.
Sylvi: I fucking knew it!
Keith: Yeah. Yeah I was asleep. Yes, I uh, you know. I must have shut my alarm off in my sleep.
Dre: Oh I did that the other day.
Keith: I had an alarm set for one. So I way overshot.
Ali: It’s all good.
Sylvi: It is all good.
Ali: I got here at like one forty seven? [chuckles] So.
Keith: I just sat it out- I was sick of Clapcasts. Done with that.
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: Done with that shit.
Ali: Yeah. We had a tough time without you, we had to talk about-
Sylvi: Fuckin’ avatar.
Ali: [laughing] Avatar.
Dre: Mhm.
Keith: The Last Airbender Avatar?
Sylvi, Janine, Dre, Ali: [a chorus of voices] No!
Sylvi: I’ve been mad about that too though!
Dre: No, the bad one.
Sylvi: I can be a hater to all sorts of Avatars. I’m in a mood today!
Dre: Hell yeah! [Janine chuckles]
Keith: Yeah I tried to do a quick math on which Avatar was more likely. I really thought it was Last Airbender, I can’t believe it was blue Avatar.
Dre: I started watching Airbender for the first time last year, and I just couldn’t- I couldn’t do it. It’s too much of a kids’ show. 
Sylvi: I can’t! Yeah, I watched it was I was twelve-
Dre: Which I don’t even mean in a bad way, it’s not for me.
Ali: Mmm.
Dre: And that’s okay, like. I don’t need every animation to be for adults.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Right.
Dre: Like I can see why people like it. But I think I just came to it too late.
Ali: Sure.
Keith: I can also see why people like it. I can’t see why people like it the way that they like it.
Dre: Sure.
Sylvi: Yeah! Right?
Keith: But um, hmm.
Dre: I don’t know. I feel like that about most things though, so.
Sylvi: It did give us the cultural touchstone of “we’re popping big bottles when Korrasami happens tonight”, [Ali laughs] which was a great Tumblr post.
Ali: The- okay! This is a fucked up thing, is that I watched the first season of Korra, and I liked it, and spoilers for the ending of the first season of Korra, I was like, oh my god I can’t believe Nickolodeon had this like murder suicide at the end of it. This is like lit.
Dre: Jesus!
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: But then, yeah. Somebody’s like on a boat, and sets a bomb off, and it’s- it fucking rules.
Sylvi: It’s pretty fucking banger, yeah.
Ali: But I was like, this show is good, but I’m so annoyed by the Korrasami stuff, and I know they’re never gonna hook up that I’m gonna stop watching it. And I did that- [laughs]
Sylvi: I’m sorry, Korrasami’s the one that does happen, Makorra was the one in the post I was making fun of. [Ali continues laughing] Sorry, my bad!
Ali: [wheezing] And then like five years later I was like oh, okay, you know that show’s still happening. And then it happened at the end and I was like, damn, I could’ve been here.
Sylvi: Did it though?
Ali: I could’ve been in the fandom. I could’ve waited out with the people and have it pay off.
Sylvi: Yeah. For that fucking four frames of them holding hands.
Keith: That’s so long to pay off.
Ali: Well it’s like a whole- how long was that show, like four or five seasons I think?
Sylvi: I think so. It’s not worth it.
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: More or less time than Jim and Pam in The Office?
Ali: Mmmm.
Sylvi: Also not worth it, but.
Ali: Well-
Dre: Yeah, also definitely not worth it.
Ali: I was a member of The Office fandom on LiveJournal, so- 
Dre: That’s okay!
Ali: I have to agree it took- [laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah! I was a member of the Supernatural fandom on Tumblr, Ali, people change! [Ali laughs]
Dre: [overlapping] I don’t. Hey- I don’t judge anyone for loving The Office at the time it released, I just- I judge people if you’re a still weirdo about it twenty years later.
Ali: It’s so weird- I don’t get how, yeah-
Janine: The Office was a great show to like, come home from class and nap to [chuckles]. It was very pleasant, this was way better than CSI for that.
Ali: [chuckles] Like what are people doing that The Office is still a cultural touchstone? There’s other shows!
Sylvi: I know!
Janine: There are people who just stop growing and developing and are online. So.
Dre: Yeah. That’s-
Ali: No! No, like, no no no, people are coming, like college kids are into The Office still, like there’s like, this churning of every generation, twenty year olds are going to get into The Office but I don’t understand why it’s still happening.
Sylvi: I think it’s tiring how it’s a big part of it now.
Dre: I think it’s happening with Friends too.
Sylvi: Friends I don’t fucking get.
Keith: Well that’s unexcusable.
Dre: No, absolutely.
Keith: Like, The Office- okay. I don’t like The Office anymore, I haven't liked The Office in a decade. The Office is funny. 
Sylvi: There are jokes in there. Yeah.
Keith: It’s full of jokes, and the jokes are like pretty good.
Dre: He puts that guy’s stapler in jello, that’s pretty good.
Keith: Yeah it’s pretty good. [Ali: Yeah!] Yeah, pranks, you know. I think that like, like Jim is an icon for guys who only suck a little? [Dre and Janine laugh]
Sylvi: Who think they only suck a little.
Keith: Guys who suck a medium amount but think they only suck a little.
Dre: Sure.
Sylvi: Thank you.
Janine: I do think there’s like a thing where laugh track shows have been ruined for me. I can’t go back to laugh track shows.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: Fair.
Janine: Cause they move so slowly? Cause you have- cause the show is constantly stopping to tell me, hey we just did a funny thing! And it’s like, I don’t care, just keep moving, I’ll laugh when I laugh. [Ali laughs] So it’s very hard to go back to something like Friends which I enjoyed as a Grade 6 student, as a child, I thought that show was very funny.
Dre: Yeah. Remember that guy says pivot funny?
Ali: Yeah, when I was in the third grade- [chuckles] Huh?
Dre: Remember when he says pivot funny [Ali: Oh sure.] when he’s carrying the couch?
Keith: [unamused] No. [Ali chuckles]
Sylvi: I- yeah.
Dre: [saying it in a funny pronunciation] Pi-vaaught!
Ali: I also don’t remember this.
Dre: That’s also the guy that dates the only like black character on that whole show.
Ali: Sure.
Janine: They- don’t they- isn’t- they- I can’t-! She dates two of them, doesn’t she?
Dre: Charlie- was that her name?
Janine: Joey like has a crush on Charlie?
Dre: Yeah, that sounds right. Who’s- who’s the actress, I can’t remember her name?
Janine: [overlapping] Or something? Or started dating Charlie- I don’t remember-
Dre: It’s the lady who did the Ubisoft press release.
Janine: Oh yeah yeah yeah!
Dre: And also was an archer.
Sylvi: Aisha Tyler.
Dre: Yes. Thank you.
Janine: Yeah yeah.
Keith: Ohhh.
Sylvi: Wasn’t she also host- wasn’t she also host of Whose Line now, or am I thinking of someone else?
Dre: She did at one point.
Ali: She did, yeah.
Sylvi: I don’t know how’s- if it’s still going.
Dre: Is Whose Line still going?
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvi: I truly have no idea.
Keith: So I think that what happened is that most of the people who knew Whose Line hated because of how horribly they were paid, [Dre: Mmm.] that they do go around playing improv games like as live shows.
Dre: Oh no, it’s still going.
Sylvi: It is still going, yeah.
Dre: It stopped in 2007, [Keith: But it-] and then Aisha Tyler restarted it in 2013.
Keith: It doesn’t have any of those people in it, right?
Dre: No.
Sylvi: It has Colin Mochrie and Ryan Stiles and-
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: It does, really?
Sylvi: Yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: Oh wow.
Sylvi: Apparently they are getting paid better in this version.
Keith: Oh okay.
Dre: [overlapping] It also has Wayne Brady on this wiki page, but I don’t know if that’s true. That’s probably- I don’t think-
Sylvi: I also don’t know how true- I don’t know how true that is, like I think that is like something that-
Dre: He’s too busy winning The Masked Singer.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: Is that still going?
Dre: That is still going.
Sylvi: Okay, sure.
Dre: I stopped watching several times ago- What did you say, Austin?
Austin: Who were you referring to as having won?
Dre: Uh, Wayne Brady.
Austin: Oh. That’s unfair! He sings.
Dre: I know! [Sylvi laughs] Hey.
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: There are several people who have won The Masked Singer and sing.
Keith: I swear to god that I would’ve bet a hundred dollars that Wayne Brady was one of the judges of The Masked Singer.
Dre: Daughtry won The Masked Singer.
Sylvi: Jewel won?!
Austin: Fuck off! 
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: Wait.
Austin: Fuck off! No!
Sylvi: LeAnn Rimes won.
Dre: LeAnn Rimes won, yeah.
Austin: No!
[heavy overlap begins]
Dre: It functionally became- yeah.
Keith: [unintelligible] -so many singers win.
Janine: I didn’t know it was a contest. I thought it was just- [unintelligible] every single episode was like a standalone thing where you get the guy-
Sylvi: Jesse McCartney then came in second place, so [unintelligible] represented.
Austin: No no no no no-
Dre: No, it became, are you a singer who’s trying to make a comeback, come on The Masked Singer [Austin: Right.] to promote your new album.
Janine: Ew! Who cares?
Austin: Ever since T-Pain.
[heavy overlap ends]
Janine: Like why watch that?
Austin: Fucked up.
Ali: Well T-Pain deserves it.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: T-Pain deserves it, cause at the point with T-Pain was- that’s my point. My point is T-Pain deserves it. Jewel does not-
Keith: Unique one in-
Austin: Well in T-Pain specifically, has a bad rep because of autotune.
Janine: Yeah! Totally.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Keith: Right.
Austin: Which hides that he’s a great singer.
Dre: Mhm.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Because he was like, you know, part of a wave, and that he became the autotune guy instead of the R&B dude, and that’s unfair for him. So he deserves the Masked Singer glow up.
Janine: Yeah, but Jewel is Jewel. Jewel just sings.
Sylvi: [overlapping] Nick Lachey won?
Austin: LeAnn Rimes must have a Grammy, right?
Dre: I think she does.
Janine: Wait the reality TV show host Nick Lachey? He sings?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Janine: Gasp. [groans]
Dre: No, he just ruins relationships preemptively.
Sylvi: He just likes doing experiments with romance, is-
Janine: With people, he just likes to do “experiments”.
Sylvi: What do they call them, social experiments? [Ali and Dre: Yeah.] Is that how Netflix markets them?
Dre: They might call some of them romance experiments, that sounds like something Netflix would call them.
Austin: Uh huh.
Ali: Can we go back to T-Pain so I can plug his 11 minute song “May I”?
Dre: Sure!
Sylvi: Fuck yeah.
Austin: Please.
Dre: You may in fact bring it back to T-Pain. 
[Ali laughs]
Sylvi: Damn! He brought it back around!
Austin: LeAnn Rimes is the youngest person to have ever won a Grammy. You’re not allowed!
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: You’re not allowed to be on The Masked Singer!
Ali: But the hope-
Dre: Great singer, but yeah! That’s not the point of that show.
Ali: Well the hope is that like- if I, okay, if I was producing The Masked Singer and this is the talent coord that I would have, the hope is that you would have singers who are talented enough to modulate their voice that’s like, oh my god, it’s Jewel in there?
Austin: Mhm.
Ali: I loved “Who Will Save Your Soul”, I would’ve never known that was her covering this other thing.
Austin: Right.
Dre: Mhm.
Ali: I don’t think- I don’t think people from [unintelligible] are thinking on that level? But that’s what should be happening.
Austin: Right. What if she just got up there and sung that song though?
[Ali laughs]
Dre: That’d be sick, honestly?
Keith: This is like if every year an actor who was known for dancing won So You Think You Can Dance?
Austin: Right!
Janine: Yeah, it sucks.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: It sucks! Alright. Are we doing a clap? Is that where we were at?
Ali: We better.
Sylvi: I think so, yeah.
Austin: We fucking better.
[Ali and Sylvi laugh]
Austin: Alright. Fifty five.
[All clap]
Austin: Alright!
[Music begins: "No Crisis" by Jack de Quidt]
[Music ends]
________________
[1] Transcriber's note: the movie Janine is talking about is Abraxas, Guardian of the Universe.