Clapcast 67: Researching Food
Transcriber: robotchangeling


Janine: I've been playing a lot of Cult of the Lamb.


Ali: Okay. I don't know what that is, but…


Janine: No?


Ali: No.


Janine: It came out in like the summer.


Ali: Oh.


Janine: It’s like a mix of…you run around fighting stuff, but also you farm, and you have a little cult that you take care of.


Ali: Oh.


Janine: And you sacrifice them and give them food and build houses.


Ali: Sure.


Janine: It’s like if you mixed Stardew Valley and Binding of Isaac, kind of.


Keith: It’s good to have a little cult.


Janine: As a treat.


Keith: As a treat.


Ali: And you sacrifice them?


Janine: If you want to. I don't really– I don’t sacrifice them.


Ali: [laughs] Okay.


Janine: But you can like set it up so that you can sacrifice them to get like benefits. I, instead of going for the thing where people get cool about sacrifice and stuff, went for the thing where I can ascend them, and it’s a little more positive, so the thing I like to do is I'll marry some people. Like, I'll get married to some people.


Ali: Mm.


Janine: And then, when they get too old to work, instead of waiting for them to die of old age and then putting them in the graveyard, I ascend them.


Keith: Mm.


Janine: And then it’s very like, you know, they’ve earned a special privilege.


Keith: Is this Cult of the Lamb?


Janine: Yes.


Keith: Okay.


Ali: Now, hang on.


Janine: Uh huh?


Ali: It’s the same thing. 


Janine: No. [Ali laughs] Sacrifice is like, blood and stabbing.


Keith: You played Autumn of Hieron.


Janine: Ascending is like light. They go up. Everyone is happy. It’s good.


Keith: Yeah, don't you–


Janine: They like it in the microwave.


Ali: You probably still stab them though, huh? [laughs quietly] 


Janine: No, you don’t! You totally don't. They totally ascend. You're not stabbing them at all.


Ali: [unconvinced] Mm-hmm.


Janine: I've never stabbed.


Keith: Don't you remember Nacre, Ali? This is real. This is what it’s all about.


Ali: Right, but people still died, you know? [laughs quietly] 


Keith: No, they had an ascension party.


Janine: They’re ascending. They were gonna die anyway. They’re old, and then they ascend, and then I get some extra points.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Janine: For me.


Ali: [still not super convinced] All right.


Keith: Mother of pearl.


Janine: I usually give them a necklace too, so it’s like…yeah? [Ali laughs]


Keith: Speaking of Nacre.


Ali: Uh huh.


Keith: I was thinking about this. “Mother of pearl” is such a fucking positive twist on “we scraped the inside of a clam out.”


Janine: I mean, pearls are. Pearls in general, that’s a positive twist on “some garbage got into this bivalve and we put it on a necklace.”


Keith: Yeah…but at least a pearl sort of looks–


Janine: Is everyone recording?


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Keith: I'm recording, yeah. 


Janine: Okay.


Keith: At least a pearl looks like a gem of some kind. Like, it looks like a stone. Mother of pearl is flakes. It’s just a flake that has the same sort of, you know…


Janine: Yeah.


Keith: Kind of wavy mother of pearl…clam bits. [Ali laughs quietly]


Janine: I mean, like, you know, for a long time, pearls were like the rarest, most valuable thing, so like, if–


Ali: Oh, were they?


Janine: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. It was like the thing. It was like pearls and, I want to say, like emeralds?


Ali: Oh.


Janine: Because they have a vitreous shine to them.


Ali: Sure.


Janine: But for a while, like, especially when people weren’t good at cutting gems, [Keith: “Mm”] gems would tend to be a little bit like more rustic, so if you wanted something with real sparkle, pearls were kind of the thing. But also, they were typically very uneven. The perfect sort of modern pearl is a very modern invention.


Ali: Mm.


Janine: They were classically very uneven, so like, the ones that were more even were worth way more, so that’s why there’s a big thing about the pearl that Queen Mary got from her…from the King of Spain or something as an engagement thing, and then like Elizabeth wore it. It’s like a big famous pearl. But, so–


Keith: The like teardroppy looking one?


Janine: Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Ali: Mm.


Janine: So, with that, it makes sense to me that if there is also shiny stuff inside the shell, yeah, scrape that out.


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: Like, it’s not as valuable as the pearl, but you're going to find like basically no pearls, because they hadn’t figured out culturing and any of that, so.


Keith: Hey, guitars need inlays. We can’t just leave this stuff hanging around.


Janine: Yeah. Uh huh. [Ali laughs quietly] The Russian Czar needs a fancy box. Get on it.


Ali: Yeah.


Janine: That’s…you know?


Ali: You can’t just have any old box.


Keith: People are clamoring to fulfill the czar’s wishes for a fancy box.


Janine: Clam-oring.


Keith: Ah! Clam-oring! [Ali laughs] I didn’t even do that on purpose.


Ali: Oh, I get it.


Keith: That was truly a pun not intended.


Ali: [to self in funny voice while typing] Armour Astir: Advent by Briar Sovereign…and who wrote the one like–


Janine: You workshopping a new accent? [Keith and Ali laugh]


Ali: Just thought I'd try it out.


Janine: Something for Marn? Sangfielle 2? [Ali laughs]


Keith: Do you want to say where you think that’s from? What is the place of that accent?


Janine: Mm…so, like…Tennessee? [Ali laughs]


Keith: I was going to say born in New York, lives in Kentucky. 


Ali: [laughs] Mm, mm-hmm. Sure. Yeah, that works. I didn't even know what I was doing, so I couldn’t do it again.


Keith: You were just doing a funny voice. [Janine laughs]


Ali: Sure.


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: It’s like Tennessee Fran Drescher.


Ali: [laughs] Good. I'm glad. Wanna Time.is?


Keith: Sure.


Janine: Yeah.


Keith: I'm so tired.


Ali: Ooh, why is Time.is all red down here? Wait, what’s going on? This weekend. Oh, it’s leaves.


Keith: It’s what?


Ali: There’s leaves down here.


Janine: They’re Easter leaves.


Ali: Mm.


Janine: That’s a lie. Don't believe that.


Ali: [laughs] “Regret for wasted time is more wasted time.”


Keith: Wow.


Ali: You're telling me, buddy.


Janine: Wow. [Ali laughs]


Keith: Thanks, Mason Cooley. 


Janine: Yeah, who’s Mason Cooley? Is that another like influence– like a hustle grinder or whatever?


Keith: Oh my god. Mason Cooley is an American aphorist known for his aphorisms.


Ali: Wait, what?


Janine: No!


Keith: His job is to be on Time.is.


Janine: He’s a quote maker! [Ali laughs]


Keith: He’s a quote maker.


Janine: They quoted the quote maker. Ew!


Ali: Wait, you can do that?


Keith: No.


Janine: He also did a bunch about time. There’s one here that says, “The time I kill is killing me.” That’s the same thing! [Ali laughs] Mm.


Ali: No, I think that’s the opposite. Well…


Keith: No. Okay, he was professor emeritus of French, speech, and world literature at the College of Staten Island. So, when you're a professor, you get to just say that you're an aphorist. You can't get paid to be an aphorist, unless you work for Hallmark. [Ali laughs quietly]


Janine: I guess if you're a French professor at Staten Island, you can make up quotes, and that can be the thing you're known for.


Keith: Yeah.


Ali: You know what, I'm respecting the hustle right now. [Janine laughs]


Keith: If you saw this guy, you would not be respecting the hustle. [Ali and Janine laugh]


Janine: Damn.


Ali: Well, he was just really like, “I want to be this thing. This is going to be the thing that I am, and hire me for it.” And, you know what, it worked, because I'm reading his quotes. Right? 


Keith: They put it. They made us read the quotes. [Ali laughs] Let’s see. Let’s look at… “Procrastination makes easy things hard, hard things harder.”


Ali: Wait, these are all about the same–


Janine: Where’s the lie? [Ali laughs]


Keith: What’s that?


Ali: These have all been about the same thing, which is like not using time correctly.


Janine: Yeah. He’s got one bit, and this is it. [Ali laughs]


Keith: Ooh! [laughs quietly]


Ali: Yeah?


Janine: Uh huh?


Keith: “‘Be faithful to your roots’ is the liberal version of ‘stay in your ghetto.’”


Ali: What?


Janine: What?


Keith: I don't know. I don't know what that’s trying to stay.


Janine: Is “stay in your ghetto” a saying?


Keith: No. [Ali sighs] It is if you're a weird Staten Island racist. [Ali laughs]


Janine: I guess it’s the unspoken sentiment of ghettos, but like…ugh.


Ali: Yeah, I don't know about this. Okay, anyway. Thank you, Mason.


Keith: Mason Cooley, he does have a lighter side. [Ali laughs quietly] “‘Moo’ may represent an idea, but only the cow knows.” 


Ali: [laughs] Okay?


Janine: That’s a Far Side aphorism. That’s just a caption from a Far Side comic.


Keith: “Moo” may represent an idea, but only the cow tools. [Ali and Janine laugh]


Ali: You know what?


Janine: Classic.


Ali: “Cure for an obsession: get another one.” I'm not reading these. Anyway. Okay. Time.is.


Keith: Okay, let’s go on. Fuck you, Time.is. Fuck you, Mason Cooley. [Ali laughs quietly]


[transition 0:09:40]


Sylvia: Mmm.


Keith: Yep.


Janine: Caffeine nose enemas are like the new thing, so.


Keith: Is that true?


Sylvia: Is that true? I'd believe that.


Janine: No. No!


Sylvia: Okay.


Keith: I believed you. Immediately, I believed you.


Janine: I know. It’s a problem. [laughs quietly] 


Keith: I can totally imagine people filling a neti pot with cold brew coffee.


Janine: With coffee, yep. I bet someone does that.


Keith: And just sort of squirting it through. I really bet someone does. [someone typing] And if it doesn’t, I'm going to start selling that. That is the new thing. You can come in. You give me $400, and I will do a coffee nose enema.


Janine: Okay. I can't immediately find someone doing this, but I still bet it’s happening.


Sylvia: It’s gotta.


Janine: I mean, you know what’s a great way to make sure there’s no amoebas in your water? Make coffee out of it, and then let the coffee cool.


Keith: [typing] Can you absorb caffeine through your nose?


Sylvia: You can absorb a lot of things through your nose, so…


Janine: Yeah.


Sylvia: I'm going to guess that’s a yes.


Keith: Yeah, I totally agree.


Janine: You can absorb stuff through your skin, like…caffeinated skincare is like a big thing. It doesn’t give you a buzz, though.


Keith: Caffeine is readily soluble in water, and it gets readily absorbed by the mucous membrane in the nose. So this would totally work.


Janine: Yeah. Yeah. 


Keith: Okay. If I ever need to become a really scummy guy from LA, I can do that.


Janine: So, I think the thing is that like, if you're neti potting, it’s coming out really fast. There might not be enough time to absorb the caffeine. You might have to like hold it in there.


Keith: Well, the traditional neti pots that don’t use force to spray the water through, that’s about a minute or two per side, I think. And if you're building a business around it, I might get like a big special neti pot that works over like five minutes. And then the key is you actually don't want it to work that well, because you don't want to accidentally give someone a heart attack by mistake. [Keith and Sylvia laugh quietly] So it’s best, if it works at all, for it to only work a little bit, I think.


Janine: I'm glad you've thought this through.


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: This is a solid– I'll give you 5K for a 60% stake.


Keith: All right. Yeah. Whoa, a 60%? Well, I can do 2.5 for 40.


Janine: 2.5 what?


Keith: K. Wait.


Janine: Mm…


Sylvia: What?


Keith: How many K did you offer before?


Janine: 1K? I don't remember.


Keith: Okay. I thought it was 4K for a 60% stake, so I changed it to 2.5 for 40%. I've never seen the show. [Janine laughs] Neighbor lost power? Oh, power blinked. Oh, okay. I see. Dre has sympathetic power loss.


Sylvia: Apparently, the whole neighborhood lost it.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Hello.


Sylvia: Hello!


Ali: Hi!


Austin: Bummer.


Ali: Uh huh.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: No good.


Ali: Mm-mm.


Keith: Fortunately, we thought of a great business idea.


Austin: Oh, what’s your business idea?


Keith: Uh, we’re going to give people neti pots full of cold brew coffee.


Austin: So that I can drink coffee without ruining my teeth.


Keith: That’s part of it. Yeah, it’s just sort of like an LA sort of thing.


Austin: Right.


Keith: You know, it’s sort of get your caffeine through your nose. It feels kind of natural, even though, obviously, if you told anyone normal, they would be like, “Oh my god, that sounds horrible.”


Austin: Wait. Question. Uh, can you define “feel” in the sentence, “It feels kind of natural.” [Sylvia laughs]


Keith: Uh, I don't know, but I feel like…so, Janine said, as a joke, doing nose enemas with coffee, and I immediately felt that it was true, that it could be true, and Sylvi also did.


Sylvia: Yeah. We both got duped.


Austin: That you’d do it, you mean? Or that…


Keith: That people would do that, you know?


Austin: Oh, I bet it happens all the time.


Keith: Well, we searched and couldn’t find any evidence that anyone was doing that, and so I was like, “This is a great business idea.”


Austin: It has–


Keith: $400. 15 minutes. You can buy green juice at the counter.


Austin: I got a video of it. What are you–


Janine: Does the green juice also go in my nose, or is that for when I'm waiting?


Austin: Listen. Listen. You're like, “I can't find it. No one does this.” Here’s a video of a person doing it. Like, what are we talking about here?


Janine: Oh. Well, I just did a quick search. I didn’t like dig in.


Sylvia: Damn.


Austin: And it’s a guy I know!


Janine: What? 


Keith: [laughs] Right, but this is a comedian. I also…


Austin: It’s…come on. [sound from video, Austin laughs] 


Keith: This is a joke, though.


Austin: Prove it. He’s not laughing.


Sylvia: Damn. Damn!


Janine: Huh.


Austin: Oh, the only– the description of this video is, “The neti pot from this video is cheap. Here’s where you can buy it,” and it seems to be an affiliate link to Amazon. [laughs] 


Keith: But it’s…it’s DrewToothpaste!


Austin: What about it? It’s DrewToothpaste!


[transition 0:15:04]


Austin: Mm.


Keith: I've got like 20 tabs open.


Austin: That’s a lot of tabs.


Ali: Whoa. 


Sylvia: Dang. 


Ali: What are you looking at?


Sylvia: That’s like an average tab day for me.


Austin: Yeah, I was going to say, that’s just all the time.


Ali: Yeah, I don't…I’m not a tab girlie.


Keith: Uh, well, it’s…you know how it goes. I just have like four different versions of Twitter open, so I could just close all those. [Ali sputters]


Austin: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.


Sylvia: Uh, yeah.


Jack: [chuckles] Yeah.


Keith: I was looking at sausages, and so, close the sausage tab.


Austin: Yeah, same. Same. Always have the sausages open, for sure. [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: Tell me about it. [Austin laughs quietly]


Keith: Uh, this thing about vegetables. Looking at pros and cons of different measuring cups on America’s Test Kitchen. Close that.


Ali: Right, yeah, yeah, yeah.


Jack: Are you researching what food is? [Ali and Sylvia laugh]


Keith: Yeah, I forgot about what food was. It was a close call. [Keith, Ali, and Jack laugh]


Jack: Well, I'm glad you are…


Keith: Close this video about how to butcher every bird. [Ali and Jack laugh]


Austin: Every?!


Keith: Every.


[transition 0:15:56]


Janine: I don't know. I like raptorphobia waaay more. [Dre laughs] That’s like a cool one to say.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Dre: Uh, Sylvi, I think you might be on the wrong mic. 


Sylvia: Oh, am I? Okay, hold on.


Janine: Yeah, I'm hearing a little bit of like trackpad clicking.


Sylvia: Yeah, that’s definitely the wrong mic.


Dre: Ornithophobia. 


Janine: Oh, okay. Yeah.


Sylvia: [better audio] How about now?


Ali: Good.


Dre: Much better.


Janine: Nice.


Sylvia: Cool. Yeah. I usually have it set to be my onboard mic, because most of the time I'm using my Bluetooth headphones with my laptop, and I don't ever want to use the mic from those. 


Janine: Yeah. You can just disable microphones you don't want the system to use.


Sylvia: Oh. I should do that. I'm not really a computer girlie. [Janine and Ali laugh quietly] 


Janine: I tend to do it because Bluetooth headphones will often not just have a microphone but they’ll want to switch into like a weird communication mode where your own audio is also terrible.


Dre: Ugh.


Sylvia: Yeah, no, I hate it. I hate it so much.


Janine: Yeah. So, you can just–


Dre: You want everything to sound like a bad Skype call?


Janine: Yeah, you can just disable all that shit. It’s a little spotty. Sometimes it decides to un-disable itself, but most of the time, it’s great.


Dre: Ah, Windows.


Sylvia: I have a desk chair that doesn’t squeak anymore.


Dre: Nice!


Janine: Ooh.


Dre: I got a new desk chair this week too. Let’s go!


Ali: Ooh.


Sylvia: Shout out. We’re doing good things for our backs. [Ali and Janine laugh]


Dre: Yeah, seriously. I'm free of the fucking…whatever the bullshit…


Janine: Secretlab?


Dre: Yeah, the Secretlab’s TITAN chair. [Ali laughs quietly] 


Janine: I still have that one, and it’s been okay. I'm open to the idea of like, I could do better, but like, so far mine hasn’t completely crapped out on me.


Dre: it started hurting my back really bad.


Janine: Ugh.


Dre: And then the tilt lock thing just like randomly broke.


Janine: Oh.


Dre: And there’s also, like, the fabric is like ripped up on it.


Janine: Oh! Wild.


Sylvia: Yeah, there was like a crack in my old one.


Dre: Where all I do is sit in this chair. [laughs] I don’t do anything else to the chair.


Janine: You don’t chew it? Sorry, what were you saying, Sylvi?


Dre: No. Sorry, Sylvi.


Sylvia: Oh, no. Mine…like, something cracked at like one of the back corners of mine, and so like, when I leaned back, it would lean further to the right. [Dre laughs]


Janine: Oh.


Sylvia: And, uh…yeah, no, it sucked.


Janine: Wow.


Sylvia: Coincidentally, guess who developed sciatica when she used that chair for a very long time during a summer.


Dre: Mm.


Janine: Ooh.


Sylvia: It was me! So, yeah.


Dre: It’s ya girl. [laughs] 


Sylvia: Yeah. So, I'm glad I got that taken care of.


Dre: Ali, how is your chair and your back? [Sylvia laughs quietly] 


Ali: Um, mine is fine. I have a pandemic Herman Miller that I got for like $300.


Janine: Oh, lucky.


Dre: Oh, hell yeah.


Ali: [laughs quietly] So, that’s…


Austin: [quietly] Hello.


Janine: Good find.


Ali: That’s how I'm living. I bought one in California from some guy who was like just selling it from his home office or whatever, and then when I moved, sold that one, used the money to get another one from like just a weirdo warehouse in Long Island [Dre: “Mm-hmm?”] that was just like filled with old desk chairs.


Austin: Ooh, what’d you get?


Janine: Mm.


Ali: We’re talking desk chairs, and I'm saying I have a, um…


Austin: What’d you get? I wanna know.


Ali: Oh, I have the Herman Miller that I've had for a little bit.


Austin: Oh, nice.


Sylvia: I like that our chairs have people names. [Ali laughs quietly] 


Janine: Mm.


Sylvia: Mine’s named MARKUS.


Ali: Ooh. [Austin laughs]


Dre: Oh. Mine’s called the Gesture.


Ali: Ooh.


Austin: Oh. I forget what mine’s called. I feel like a bad chair person. [Dre laughs] It was like a…it was a whole thing. It was a whole process.


Dre: Boy, it sure is.


Austin: Mine is called Leap, which isn’t a name, except it is.


Sylvia: It is to us!


Ali: Oh, yeah.


Keith: Hello!


Ali: Hello!


Sylvia: Oh my gosh!


Austin: Speak of the devil.


Keith: Yeah. 


Janine: Ah.


Keith: [voice] Did anyone ask for the devil, the robot devil?


Austin: They did, uh huh.


[PALISADE end music]