Clapcast 77: You’ve Been Eating Trash (+STREAM TOMORROW)
Transcriber: HenArcade 0:00-4:25; brighty2727 4:25 - 44:22 (end)
Janine: Like Mt. Everest? Where there's just like, dead bodies all over the place.
Ali: Awwww.
Jack: Yeah, no... No, this is a comfortable [Ali laughs] hangout near the bottom of the cave—
Janine: Hey what's that like black scraggly thing in the edge of the camera? Is that a cryptid?
Jack: It is the shadow of the [laughs] of the camera. What are-- It's from Lethal Company. [Janine laughs] It's some sort of horror emerging to obliterate this man.
Janine: [crosstalk] It's the Scribbler.
Jack: Oh my god, the Scribbler!
Ali: Why does it look like-- I mean this person is covered in mud that is also covering the walls and all of the ground, right?
Jack: Yeah.
Janine: I know why they’re like that.
Jack: Why? Is it ‘the cave is muddy and poorly decorated?
Janine: It's probably because there are parts where you have to slide through, like... 
Ali: Ahhh... 
Janine: Long style.
[pause]
Jack: Awful.
Janine: Yeah.
Jack: Long style, [laughing] slide it through long style.
[Janine laughs]
Ali: Hotdog style, you mean?
Jack: Ahh... God. This does not look… 
Janine: [crosstalk] Caves are the worst.
Ali: [laughs]
Janine: I can't... I just... Caves are cool, but I can't imagine [pauses] going into a hole, and then it gets like really small and being like "I'm going to go through this small part" and then doing that, and then getting to a thing where it gets big again, but also just drops down, and being like "I want to go down there.”
[Ali chuckles]
Janine: Like, no I don't. I want to get a coffee, and go home.
Ali: Yeahhh.
Jack: [long exhale] Do you feel any call to adventure?
Janine: [giggles] In general? Broadly? 
Ali: What a question.
Janine: Wow.
Jack: Yeah.
Janine: I mean, define "adventure", right? Like... I. Certain kinds of adventure.
Jack: Okay, would you go in a hot air balloon? 
Janine: [crosstalk] The call to adventure… Mmm... Maybe. 
Ali: Oh that's so scary.
Janine: I mean my mom who is terrified of heights went in a hot-air balloon and she came back alive, so.
Ali: I can't even be in a mall that has a third floor and like a glass wall. I don't know that a hot air balloon is for me. [Ali and Jack laugh]
Janine: Yeah, I mean the baskets are pretty big for one thing.
Ali: I know, but yeah I don't know about all that. [laughs]
Janine: And you can be in there with other people and you don't have to stand at the edge. You can stand in the middle.
[long pause]
Jack: Would you… Go scuba diving? Not super deep, but just go down there and look at the fish.
Janine: Mmm... If I was— had like training and I was like... comfortable in the training [Ali: Mhm] then yes. There’s a lot of like, fly-by-night scuba trainers— [Jack: Mmm.] 
[Ali begins laughing]
Janine: [cont.] that just straight up get people killed and so I would want to like— I would want to do my research there, you know?
[pause]
Jack: That's fair enough. I've just learned that the Adventure Mine also just sells copper, just copper. 
[Ali and Jack chuckle] 
Jack: If you want to buy some copper. [Janine: Yeah.] Seems reasonably priced.
Janine: You can do that at like a... rock store. Like, why wouldn't they put that in the gift shop?
Ali: Yeah.
Jack: It's true.
Janine: My question is, are they mining the copper there or are they just buying bulk copper to sell because people expect it?
Ali: Ohhh, that would be... [Jack: Ahhh...] You gotta mine your own copper if you're going to be selling it to somebody, right?
Jack: [reading from a website] "Today there is probably more copper"— 
[Janine, responding to Ali: No [laughs]] 
Jack: [cont.] "and silver in the mine than has been mined out in all the preceding years. Now the copper can be purchased as a memorable souvenir. Visit the mine or our online store to shop our copper nuggets"... 
Jack: Okay.
Ali: Woowww.
Jack: They have an Instagram and now I'm on their Instagram.
Ali: [laughing] Are you actually going to this place or did you just find it and now you're thinking?
Jack: Now I'm thinking. Janine... Janine pointed me in the direction of this.
Ali: Okay.
Jack: And now I'm looking at— These, these people are riding fucking bicycles in there. 
Ali: [laughs] You can't do that.
Janine: Why?
Jack: You can't do that! Stop that! Someone get that child out of there!
Ali: A child is riding a bicycle in there?
Jack: Yeah!
Ali: That’s...
Janine: Why?! Simply why?
Ali: That's ridiculous. What are we doing?
Jack: What are we doing?
[Ali laughs]
Janine: They should be wearing hats though.
Jack: Bats. Yeah, they should be doing it--
Janine: [crosstalk] If you fall you’re gonna skid, and it hurt, and bad.
Jack: Aw, no Bad time. Oh, what’s this? There’s a dog in the cave! Okay. I’m posting my final frightening picture and then let’s…
[pause]
Janine: So there’s like, multiple ice caves in Michigan as well. A lot of them though, it seems like you need to take a kind of precarious hike to get there.
Jack: Michigan ice cave, whoa.
Janine: Yeah. Also, it’s just a cave that like, water flows through and then it freezes, it’s not like all ice.
Jack: That’s still pretty cool I think.
Janine: Yeah. Um, I just, really quickly-- Remember that note that I put in about apple.
Jack: Oh! Yeah, yeah.
Ali: [crosstalk] Yeah.
Janine: I was like “talk about apple.”
Ali: Mm-hm.
Janine: Um. [pause] [reading] “Selectively bred to snap like a sweet piece of celery, this apple, only available in September and October (if we’re lucky) in certain supermarkets, is the best apple ever to grace the worlds of gods and men.”
Jack: Holy shit! [Ali laughs]
Janine: [continuing] “A gifted child of the spectacular Honeycrisp and elusive Zestar!” with an exclamation point.
Jack: [chuckling] Zestar…
Janine: [continuing] “this nearly immaculate treasure was blessed with the greatest qualities of both its parents but manages to avoid any of their unfortunate flaws.”
Ali: Oh?
Janine: [continuing] “If this was the apple that tempted Eve in the garden of Eden I wouldn’t blame her; for the taste of just one SweeTango is worth living through 1,000 painful childbirths.”
Jack: [crosstalk] What are you talking about?!
Janine: [continuing] “One downside of the SweeTango - other than needlessly lopping off the ‘T’ from ‘Sweet’ to form the repulsively frolicsome word ‘Swee’ - [Ali sighs] is it’s paltry robustness. Get these apples before November 1st or you’ll be cursing my name as you bite into a hollowed-out balloon of an apple. And, if in the Western Hemisphere, don’t be fooled into buying New Zealand SweeTangos in the winter - they can’t handle the trip. Bonus Points: +2 Taste, +1 Crispness, +1 Flesh.” And there’s a meter after this that’s got like, a bunch of green bars, fully green bars for taste, crispness, skin, flesh, juiciness, density, almost full for beauty, and then like, a little more than half for branding/consistency and cost/availability. This is a review for the SweeTango apple, subtitled “The Holy Grail.” It’s rated at 97, nearly perfect, from applerankings.com [Jack laughs], where their tagline is “You’ve been eating trash.”
Jack: Holy shit.
Ali: Whoa!
Jack: Wow! Okay. I’d like to --
Janine: I’m going to post a link for this, cause it’s my new favorite website.
Jack: I’m gonna read the top review from Alli - that’s you! [Janine gasps]
Ali: [joking] Yeah, that was me.
Jack: No, she spelled her name with two L’s but that might be your pseudonym online, is just Ali spelt differently.
Ali: Right, I’m trying to throw them off, so I can talk about the real apple opinions that I have.
Janine: Actually, I’m going to put this in DogPound just cause I want everyone to experience this website.
Jack: Yeah. You wrote, Ali, “Excelsior and trumpets! The SweeTango is the true champion of all apples! For the longest time I thought I just didn’t like apples - turns out that was hogwash aka red delicious. [Janine and Ali laugh] Sweetango completely changed the game for me, and now I look forward to the next available batch every fall! Wish they were around all year long!” To which Johmdale Twinkle, [Janine laughs] J-O-H-M-D-A-L-E Twinkle replies, “I prefer a banana myself.” To which --
[Janine and Ali laugh]
Ali: What?!”
Janine: Whoa Johmdale, out of pocket. Banned for life from applerankings.
Jack: To which TheAppleist, taking the middle ground, says “Fair.” To which, Arbitrage Gonglestronk says, “You would.” To which, Johnny Appleseed says, and this is a great burn, “You are a banana yourself.” [Jack and Janine laugh]
Janine: Okay. Are peop- Is this like a secret meme site? Are people memeing in here? No one’s named Grondlestronk or whatever. That’s shit we make up, that’s not real. That’s not a real guy.
Jack: That’s not a real - Yeah, I don’t know. Let me see if I can click on their username and see their other comments, cause that would be great. I wanna see if Arbitrage Gonglestronk is -- No, I cannot click on their username. Arbitrage Gonglestronk has not posted on this site. Oh my god, all right, well fine! So what I have to do now is find the worst apple, right?
Ali: No, this is a real website. Did you guys scroll down long enough to see [reading] “Somebody needs to clue me in here. I just purchased some of these two weeks ago, as I have never seen them before, and they were absolutely terrible. I mean just awful bad. They had very little snap, the flesh was gritty like a pear, and there was zero flavor. A red delicious tastes better and you couldn’t pay me to eat those. The only thing this apple had going for it was a massive amount of juice, which was just as empty as the fruit.”
Janine: I’m so worried cause I got a bag of these apples like, today, and it is late November. Or like mid-November, so --
Jack: Oh no.
Janine: So I might just have a bag of trash. They were pretty cheap, which is concerning.
Jack: Well, wait. Are they nearby? Let’s crack one open!
Janine: I don’t know. I… [Ali laughs] I could… Listen, I can get one.
Jack: Well, sure.
Janine: All right. One second.
Ali: [reading from the front page of applerankings.com] Oh, this is the Holy Grail of apples? Honeycrisp, “A Worldwide Favorite.” Kanzi apples, “The European Party Apple.” Snapdragon --
Jack: Red Delicious apple has a score of 25. “Despicable.” It’s described as “Coffee Grinds in a Leather Glove.” The ranking above it is 39, “Horse Food.” This is great.
Ali: This is so weird. Pink Lady apples: “A Fiery Troublemaker,” Lucy Glo apples: “A Breathtaking Circus Freak, Opal apples: “A Tasty Unwiped Anus,” Wild Twist apples --
Jack: What?!
Ali: [laughs] “A famous person’s child. What do they have against Opal apples?
Jack: Wolf River apples: “The Midwestern Sledgehammer.” Honeyz apple: “The Worst Named Apple.” Arkansas Black Apple: “A Teeth-Shattering Oddity.” 23. Scored 23, “Despicable.” [reading the review for Arkansas Black Apple] “This teeth-shattering oddity, boasting a deep red hue that’ll make a dark cherry look like a fluorescent glow stick, will destroy your helpless mouth with every unfortunate bite. A ten out of ten on the Mohs Hardness Scale, this apple would perform admirably as a drill tip in a diamond mine. While true, the hardness marginally decreases if left in your refrigerator for a full year, those patient enough to plan lunch into the next decade will be sorely disappointed with a thick-skinned carbuncle that tastes and feels like an uncooked russet potato. Truly despicable.”
[Ali laughs]
Janine: I think these apple people are the writers of our generation.
Jack: Oh, these guys absolutely rule.
Janine: All right I have this apple.
Ali: [crosstalk] Let me -- [laughing] Okay.
Jack: Okay.
Ali: I was gonna read this comment on Opal apples from Candi K.
Janine: Please do, it’ll give me time to eat a little bit here.
Jack: [crosstalk] Yeah, no, please.
Ali: Okay. [reading] “I found my Opal apples in three pound bags at Walmart for about $1.50 a pound. No ‘high end stores’ for me, thank you. They were the perfect eating size for our rather normal appetites. They were a lovely, warm glow with sugar freckles like a ripening banana and as time passed developed a wonderfully tempting soft blush that remained attractively enticing for a couple weeks so when they were gone I ordered more. They remained pretty, crisp and juicy until their consumption. I am not much of a gourmet but I know what I like and what my family will eat until it is gone and clever vulgar words will not deter me. I believe some folks eat snails and fungus off oak tree roots dug out by pigs and they like it.”
Jack: Oh my god.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: Was that a defense of?
Jack: [crosstalk] That’s a review?
Ali: [laughs] Well, this was a comment on a review for Opal apples where this guy says that, if you look at the top of an Opal apple it looks like it pooped itself, because it has that sort of brown ring where the stem is.
Janine: [crosstalk] Oh. I was gonna say like, it’s kinda fucked up to rate something an 82 and then be like, this looks like a butt with poop.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Janine: I don’t know, that’s weird. Um, I did find it very funny that the Red Delicious was not even good enough for a horse. Based on like [Ali laughs] the comparison that -- So this apple, this SweeTango, which is currently the top rated apple on applerankings.com, [Ali: Mm-hm] let me tell you, despite the fact that it is November 18th, the snap on this is unbelievable.
Ali: Wow.
Janine: It’s like, you know the snap of the best green grape you’ve ever had, where the grape is really firm [Jack: Yeah.] and as soon as your teeth pierce the skin, it’s like it’s retracting a little bit, like it just has that like, real crisp bite. It’s like that, but it’s an apple.
Jack: That’s great.
Janine: Taste-wise, maybe these are past their prime, as we’ve established. It’s mostly just like a sweet nice. There’s no -- Maybe it -- Maybe this person doing the apple reviews really likes a consistent sweet apple. [Ali: Mm-hm] I like a little bit of tart in with the sweet, so for me this is like, missing a little bit something, but that’s balanced out by the texture. Like I’ll eat a lot -- like I’ll eat things or avoid things based on texture. [Ali: Mm-hm] So that like, snap experience, I think would bring me back here. They’re also cheaper than Honeycrisps here right now for some reason.
[TIMESTAMP: 15:04]
Ali: All right. Well, I’m looking at their “How Apples are Ranked” page right now to sort of get a sense of what that is. 
Janine: Mm-hm.
Jack: No apples -- So the apple tiers go down from top to bottom, and I’m not gonna read out the kind of points brackets, I just wanna go through the tiers. We have, top apple tier, the highest: 
* “The Fabled Immaculate Apple”
* “Just Short of Sheer Perfection”
* “Superior to Most”
* “Excellent”
* “Very Good.” 
Now we move into average apple tier:
* “Pretty Good”
* “Mediocre”
* “Barely Worth the Calories”
Now we move into, and I quote, “Pure Shit Apple Tier:” [laughing]
* “Not Worth Eating”
* “Horse Food”
* and “Despicable”
[Ali laughs] Finally we move into the lowest scale, “Apple Hell:”
* “Vomitous Filth”
* and “Criminal Malfeasance”
And it’s worth saying that there is no apple ranked Criminal Malfeasance, right now. [Ali: Mm-hm.] The lowest ranked is the Newtown Pippin apple, described as “Long Island’s Sand-Filled Condom” [laughing] at a rating of 19, that is “Vomitous Filth.” Um.
Janine: Can I tell you, when I was picking out what apples to get, I was actually looking between the SweeTango and I think the Newtown Pippin, so I think I made the right choice, apparently. [Ali: Whoa!] Cause that sounds bad.
Ali: Is this a --
Jack: It doesn’t sound good.
Ali: Newtown Long Island.
Janine: Apparently their apples are shit.
Jack: [crosstalk] This website is extraordinary. “In today’s world --”
Janine: The number of apples that are like, just brand names these days is… really something. [pause] Whoa! Interesting! The Zestar! exclamation point is in the Pure Shit Apple category! They’re called “The Failed Magician,” 53, not worth eating.
Jack: Wow. God, so the SweeTango is really…
Janine: Yeah.
Jack: I didn’t realize when you introduced it that it really was [Ali laughs] absolute top of the scale.
Janine: [reading] “The Single Parent Overachiever of Apples.”
Ali: Wow. Oh.
Janine: Or “Single-Parented Overachiever of Apples.” Jonathan apples?
Jack: Well, how many apples are on this list? 
Janine: [reading] “MiApple apples, the Narc of Apples.” What does that mean?
Ali: [laughing] I don’t… Yeah, these are actually more confusing the more that I look at them. [reading] “The One Night Stand. The Bottom-Shelf Vintage. A Disharmony of Favor Notes. The Jawbreaker. The Most Overhyped Apple of All Time.”
Janine: Oh, what’s that?
Jack: That’s the uh --
Ali: Uh, that is the Cosmic Crisp.
Janine: Oh, you know, I -- yeah. My dad -- [Ali laughs] My dad is like, so ride or die for a Cosmic Crisp, and I’m like, “This is just okay. It’s fine.”
Ali: I gotta get more apples. I… I have to go grocery shopping.
Janine: I used to get like, the big individual ones, like exclusively, cause like, my mom would always put an apple in our lunch and she would get like, apples by the bag, and then when she died, it was like, well we don’t need that many apples, we don’t need apples that much, just get a couple big ones. But I realized very recently that like, yeah they sell the big ones individually, and the bags are like, nice little ones. And the nice little ones are easy to just grab. Just like, when you’re in the kitchen, just to be like, I’m gonna -- Instead of just having a drink and skipping lunch or whatever, I’m just gonna have a drink and grab this apple and maybe some crackers, it just fits all in your hand. [Ali: Right.] Like, the apples you get in bags are sized that you can almost eat them as an afterthought, and then you’re like, “Oh, I got all my fruit today, that’s nice.”
Ali: Right, whereas like, a big apple is really an investment.
Janine: [sighs] Yeah. Yeah, that’s like I’m committing to that being the thing I’m doing.
Ali: Right. And it’s so much dense like, texture and flavor.
Janine: And if it’s bad, you’re fucked.
Ali: Right, there’s that too. But like, if an apple is big enough, I’ll get halfway through it and i”ll be like, “I’m done.” [laughs] “I’ve been doing this for long enough,” right?
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: “I get what you’re… I understand the story here, apple.”
Jack: “That’s enough for me.”
Janine: [crosstalk] A big apple to me is like, you slice that up into nice thin pieces, and then you slice up some cheese, and then you maybe have some nuts, you know? And that’s like your evening snack platter kind of thing. That’s fine, but just like, eating that, you’re not ---
Ali: Oh! I just bought a little plate from Muji that’s like a square plate with three individual, like, sections for snacking. For, you know, visual…
Jack: [crosstalk] That’s great.
Janine: [crosstalk] I love that.
Ali: Yeah. I’m excited.
Jack: I wanna call Argus and ask if they have these. [Ali and Jack laugh] Have these apples. After I finish recording I’m gonna go down to Argus and see if I can get these SweeTangos. It’s interesting that you say that they’re not so -- they’re not as bad in November 18th as you thought they might be, right?
Janine: It might just be that this year was like a late apple year.
Ali: Mm, mm-hm.
[pause]
Jack: Oh my god, okay.
Janine: ‘Cause it was hot for so much longer, so I wonder if it’s just like a, you know.
Jack: I would really like to invite you to check out this apple’s website.
Janine: [joking] It’s just a Facebook link.
Ali: Oh, here we go.
Janine: [warily] Okay.
Jack: So I could get some SweeTangos… [pause]
Ali: [laughs] [reading] “So what’s it like to bite into a SweeTango? Crisp.” [Janine laughs] “When you first sink your teeth into a delicious SweeTango, you release a fun, loud crunch that wakes your tastebuds and gets them ready for that first, flavorful bite.”
Jack: Wow.
Ali: [continues reading] “Sweet! [interrupted by the loud crunch of someone biting into an apple] “Next, a rush of sweet juicy flavor with a touch of honey fills your mouth. If it’s your first time, your eyes will probably bug out. Don’t worry, this is pretty normal.
Janine: My eyes didn’t bug out. That’s silly. [Jack and Ali laugh]
Ali: [continues reading] “Zesty!”
Janine: What? Shut up.
Ali: [continues reading] “As your taste buds begin to tango with the texture, [Janine: Oh my god.] you’ll feel a rush of citrus that perfectly complements the sweetness of the dance and makes your mouth water.”
        “Amazing! Finally as you begin to chew, you’ll begin to notice the finer hints of spice in each bite that makes a SweeTango the only apple you’ll ever want.”
Janine: I’m not getting the citrus?
Ali: [continues reading] “Fuel your next adventure with SweeTango.”
Janine: Also, Ali, I’m not sure if Discord hid it, but for the sake of editing this later, right after you read the thing about the crunch, I did a big crunch right into my microphone.
Ali: [laughs] Oh good.
Janine: So you can really give people the experience if you want.
Ali: Uh-huh, I’m glad. This is really funny. It’s funny cause these aren’t even like-- Were they, as sort of branded and separated as the like, white strawberries that you can get now or the pink pineapple. Did we talk about the pink pineapple?
Jack: We haven’t, but I have seen the pink pineapple.
Janine: I have not.
Ali: The Pinkglow pineapple.
Jack: Did you have one?
Ali: I haven’t, no. I think a friend of mine ordered one. [pause] I’m just gonna put this in Dog Pound because that’s where we’re putting all of our fruit. [laughs] But this was like, specifically like, it’s so--
Janine: Oh, I saw a photo of this, it looks like ham to me. It grosses me out.
Ali: Yeah, it’s disgusting. It’s like-- It’s also so Instagram-y, like it’s so like, this is the pineapple for influencers.
Jack: [laughs] This is the pineapple for influencers!
Janine: It’s funny, because that’s what pineapple like, originally -- There’s a really good bit -- I’m a big fan of BBC’s version of Ghosts. The U.S. one, I’ve tried, it’s fine. But, the BBC one, there’s a great bit with -- There’s a lady named Kitty who is a ghost from the 1700s I think? And there is -- I think they’re like, hosting a wedding at this hotel that’s haunted or something, and pineapple comes up. Like, “Is there pineapple at the party?” And Kitty’s like, “No, they weren’t millionaires,” or whatever. “They weren’t rich.” So there’s this recurring thread of her being like, “Pineapple is what you do if you’re like, the king and you’re trying to impress someone.”
Jack: [crosstalk] Phenomenally wealthy.
Janine: Because of course in the 1700s, like getting a pineapple back to fucking rural England.
Ali: Yeah…
Jack: Not gonna happen.
Janine: Yeah, that is for influencers.
Jack: Yeah, I mean, it was like, bananas showed up in England like, comparatively recently, right?
Ali: Oh, really?
Janine: Yeah, I guess.
Jack: Yeah, I think like my granny’s generation? And she’s 96. But, you know, so it was a while ago. But still.
Ali: Right, yeah.
Jack: The humble banana arriving in England. 
Janine: I wonder if that was like-- I wonder if that was because demand was increased because of like, the whole Windrush thing in the 50s,60s.
Jack: Yeah, that’s a good question. I don’t know. I’m searching --
Janine: Like, cooking with banana would be more of a thing versus like -- Banana, I think, if you aren’t primed for banana is a bit of a tough sell and I think the history of the food that the English adopt versus reject is very fascinating.
Jack: Oh yes.
Janine: Like tea and curry being like, really chief examples.
[Ali laughs]
Jack: Okay, so the first banana showed up in London is 1633, so that was a bit before my granny was born. And then they sort of went away. In 1901, the port of Avonmouth took delivery of what was claimed to be Britain's first commercial cargo of bananas from the West Indies. And now I’m reading a Financial Times piece that says “Defining Moment: The Banana Returns to Britain, December 30th, 1945. It was the first winter after the second World War and the children of Britain were about to receive a late Christmas present. Hundreds of children, most of whom had never seen a banana before, were there to greet the Fyffe ship, Tilapia, which arrived in Avonmouth from Kingston, Jamaica, loaded with a consignment of 10 million bananas. As the ship docked, a crew member threw a yellow banana onto the quayside, where it was caught by the 10-year-old daughter of a dock worker. It was the first banana to reach Britain since 1940.” So, you know, during the war, no bananas.
Janine: Right.
Jack: [continues reading] “Most of the bananas were green and unripe, and meant to be stored for a week before being distributed all over the west country. They were earmarked for under-18-year-olds, as a special austerity-era treat, as children tended to be the most excited about bananas. A popular wartime song, by the bandleader Harry Roy, had asked “When Can I Have a Banana Again?” [searching] When Can I Have a Banana again…
Janine: So they had bananas before.
Jack: Yeah. But then the bananas all had to go away for the war, I guess. And there are a bunch of children-- “When Can I Have a Banana Again?” I can’t find lyrics and I’m not gonna watch this…[Ali and Janine laugh] song… Okay, fine, I’m gonna watch it.
Janine: What are the odds this song ends up being racist somehow.
Jack: Okay. Yeah, I don’t know, we’ll see. I’m skipping ahead. We’re forty seconds into this song and he hasn’t started singing yet. [pause] Oh, there’s a full clarinet solo! Dude! [Janine laughs] Oh, here we go. “I get along without sugar, I’d never drink any tea.” He’s listing food and he says it doesn’t worry him. He won’t eat the neck of a chicken. “For me, it don’t mean a thing. But the one thing you’ll hear me crave, and that’s why you’ll hear me sing.”
Janine: Were chickens rationed? Specifically?
Jack: “Oh, when can I have a banana again? Oh tell me, tell me mother, tell me do. Woohoo!” [everyone laughs] “When can I have a banana again? As I used to do.” Right, he’s melancholy about it. “You see, I like them for breakfast and I like them for lunch, I don’t mind them single or all in a bunch. When can I have a banana again? Oh, tell me, tell me mother do.” Okay. Okay! That’s the measure of it.
Ali: Ready to do this thing?
Janine: Yeah.
Jack: We should probably do, shouldn’t we.
[Ali laughs]
Janine: People gotta start branding bananas. We need a wave of like, weirdo, like “The Foxtrot Yellow Five!” I don’t know, that’s… something like that.
Jack: I want to see one that’s three feet long.
Janine: I don’t. I don’t. That’s gross. That’s awful.
Ali: [laughs] Yeah… [makes a distressed sound]
Janine: That’s like, scary. [typing sounds] Although, now I’m curious, what is the longest fruit?
Jack: [crosstalk] Negative reviews!
Ali: Longest banana…
Jack: Probably the banana, right?
Janine: No. There’s no way.
Jack: Name a fruit longer than a banana!
Janine: The… uh…
Jack: You see, you can’t do it!
Janine: The… juneplum.
Jack: You made that up!
Janine: I can’t tell if the fruit is the longest part of this or if something else is the longest part. [pause] Oh, 69 centimeters is not that long. That’s not… That can’t be the longest fruit! [pause] Ew. [pause] I’m just getting like, county fair freaky jackfruits, and what I want is just like, “This is normal. This is a normal fruit and it just happens to be long.”
[TIMESTAMP: 30:04]
Jack: I found an absolutely incredible piece generated by some A.I. that attempts to solve the riddle of what is the longest fruit. Give this page a little read and see if you can figure out what it’s doing. I’ve put it in the Dog Pound.
Janine: [reading] “What is the longest fruit? Riddle solved and explained. A riddle is a statement, question, or phrase with a double or veiled meaning. It is presented as a riddle to be solved. There are two types of puzzles. A riddle is a problem, generally expressed through figurative or allegorical terms, that requires ingenuity or careful thought to solve. A mystery, whose meaning is based on a pun, on a question, or answer. The precise definition of the puzzle is complex and has sparked much academic debate. The first major contemporary attempted to find the enigma in modern Western science was by Robert Petch in 1899, inspired by structuralism by Robert A. George and Alan Dundes in 1963.” Wait a minute.
Jack: Yep! That’s right! This page that tries to answer “what is the longest fruit” has gotten confused and is now trying to make up the history of the riddle.
Janine: It’s time travelers. Time traveler.
[Ali laughs]
Jack: Ughh… All right. Let’s do it. Let’s do it.
Janine: Yeah, let’s go.
Ali: [crosstalk] Yeah. Time.is.
Jack: Time.is! It’s International Fruits Day! It’s not.
Janine: You got me. I was like, genuinely like [dramatic gasp].
[Ali laughs]
Jack: It is not today.
Janine: I was bought in, you had me. Hook, line, and sinker. [Jack and Ali laugh]
Jack: No, alas. Okay. Shall we go at 30?
Ali: Yeah. We should do that.
[clap]
[MUSICAL INTERLUDE. TIMESTAMP 31:40]
Jack: I have to make sure -- Is time.is --
Keith: [crosstalk] Bah-bah-bah-bah. Okay.
Jack: Time.is is still not working.
Austin: Yeah, I think it’s just gonna be down, I think it’s just not --
Jack: I was just hoping that we could, you know.
Keith: The magic of Counterweight would bring it back.
Austin: [crosstalk] Of waiting. Yeah. Yeah. Still waiting on someone to die, also.
Ali: [crosstalk] I can’t -- Oh no. Fuck, it was Discord, that’s right.
Jack: Oh, Discord was the one who died, what?
Ali: Discord was the one who died.
Austin: [crosstalk] Ohh, Discord died, that was the evil person who died.
Ali: Did you see the very inappropriate tweet that I made? [laughs]
Jack: Yes!
Austin: Yeah, I did, I was happy about it.
Jack: It was good!
Austin: [crosstalk] I did try to read it for a different word a lot and I couldn’t make sense of it. I was like “cross your fingers for the… dick-uh political opponent.” [Ali laughs] “Dick-sh” How do you pronounce this?
Jack: If we -- a real problem will come if we make this Counterweight series seven billion episodes long.
Austin: Mm-hm. I mean, I would love to get through it.
Jack: Well, seven billion minus four, right? Because we also all need to be making the show.
Keith: Right.
Ali: Mm-hm. Oh, sure, sure, sure.
Art: Well, people are being born all the time.
Jack: Oh! That’s true! Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: That is true. I thought you were gonna go a different way, which is like, if someone else horrible dies today, we might have like an imperative, like a moral imperative to keep recording the show.
Ali: [crosstalk] Right.
Jack: [crosstalk] Oh right, yeah.
Ali: Yeah. That’s what I thought we were going for.
Art: [crosstalk] Oh, like a Death Note situation.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. 
[Jack laughs]
Ali: I would go four or five.
Jack: Yeah. We’ll figure ‘em out.
Keith: If the quality of death was… [Ali laughs] I would go twenty. Thirty!
Austin: Yeah.
Art: I don’t think any of you have watched enough Twilight Zone. I know how this ends.
Keith: We could save the world!
Austin: [crosstalk] No, I’ve watched Death Note, though, and…
Jack: [crosstalk] Well, but, this is a --
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: That just works. It’s just fine.
Ali: I already know who my fingers are crossed for tonight, so don’t worry about it. [Ali and Jack laugh]
Austin: Interesting.
Ali: We shall see.
Jack: If -- We are better than Death Note, because he just writes a name, right? We produce a well-regarded actual-play podcast with each…
Austin: Right. Sure.
Art: Well, in a way, doesn’t Death Note produce an anime that people like?
Austin: Ooh. Sure. Sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: [crosstalk] Oh, that’s true. It is a documentary. That’s something that not a lot of people know about Death Note.
Austin: Yeah. Wouldn’t -- That show wouldn’t have gotten made without the real Death Note killings.
Jack: The real Death Note. Isn’t there a like, really sick-looking demon in Death Note?
Austin: Yeah. Ryuk.
Keith: Sick as in ill, yeah.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: I mean, yeah, he does look kind of ill. He does look like something might be wrong with him. 
Jack: [crosstalk] Ryuk.
Austin: [crosstalk] And he was -- Was he --? Am I right, in that in the version that was made for Netflix, the live-action version, he was voiced by Willem Dafoe?
Jack: Oh, yeah, he was, he is!
Austin: [crosstalk] Played by Willem Dafoe, maybe?
Ali: Oh, maybe.
Keith: Yeah, I think that is right.
Jack: Do we like Ryuk?
Austin: Mm?
Ali: The only thing I know about Death Note is from RBC World [sic] so I could not…
Keith: I have very mixed feelings about Death Note.
Austin: Yeah. We don’t like Ryuk, I don’t think. I don’t think Ryuk’s like, a character in that way. Ryuk, [pronounced putting more emphasis on the ‘u’ than he had been previously] I guess is probably right also.
Art: All I know about Death Note is the premise. I’ve did a great job.
Austin: Good job.
Jack: It’s a great -- it is a really good premise, honestly.
[laughter]
Austin: It’s like an all-timer perfect premise.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: It’s an old premise too. I feel like “what if I could write down someone’s name and they just died,” has been around, in one form or another, forever, right?
Austin: Right. Well, it’s that, and then it’s also -- it’s “what if two boys tried to figure each other out for thirty episodes.
Ali: Mm-hm. Yeah, there’s that.
Jack: Another classic piece of fiction.
Keith: That’s a huge -- That’s honestly the most important part.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. “What if two fucking weirdos had to battle wits” is the thing there.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Anyway. Time-dot…gov?
Ali: Time.. Oh, wait, where did my time.gov go? Oh wait, there it is.
Jack: This feels wrong.
Austin: Okay, an important time.gove note. I’m like, really practiced on time.gov now, they do this -- this is what they do over on Shelved by Genre and all the Ranged Touch stuff. You don’t look over on the right-hand side where there’s that other clock.
Keith: What?
Austin: D you see where it says “Your Devices Clock” over on the right-hand side?
Jack: Uh-huh.
Art: Ohh, okay.
Austin: They just have your computer time on here, which will throw you off. It’s wrong.
Keith: Right.
Art: I’m --
Ali: [crosstalk] Oh, well you need the Coordinated Universal Time, right?
Austin: You need either the one above it or you go ahead and just grab any of the other ones above the country. And just go to the second.
Ali: Right, Mountain Standard Time
Austin: Mountain Standard Time and Pacific Standard Time, Alaska Standard Time, whenever it is.
Ali: Wait, can we all choose one?
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: I don’t want anyone looking at Mountain Standard Time.
Jack: I’m gonna--
Austin: [laughing] You’re saying, it’s yours. [Ali and Jack laugh] You’ve taken Mountain Standard Time.
Ali: Yeah, uh-huh.
Keith: Oh, you’re not saying you want everyone to share one, you’re saying you want your own.
Jack: Okay.
Ali: Right. Everybody look somewhere else.
Jack: Shotgun Chamorro Standard Time.
Austin: Huh?
Jack: CHST.
Austin: Oh, I see it.
Jack: Chamorro Standard Time, it’s 10:57 AM.
Ali: [crosstalk] Oh, you have to scroll down for that.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: Well, if you have a big screen, you can just see it.
Art: If you have a big screen, it’s over by the side. I’m shocked to hear the Ranged Touch people are such…
Austin: Feds?
Art: Feds, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Yep. You know. I like to think that they like the right parts of the idea of government, [Jack laughs] but this one seems to be run by the Navy. So… And the D.O.D. so I don’t know. And the Department of Commerce. These are not the parts of the government that I am particularly invested in. You know?
Art: Yeah.
Jack: You know whose clock I would use? The Coast Guard’s.
Austin: They gotta know what time it is. They gotta know when it’s high tide. When it’s low tide.
Jack: [crosstalk] I bet those guys -- They gotta know what time it is and they’re rescuing people from the ocean all the time.
Austin: Yep. Mm-hm.
Art: What do you think happened in Indiana?
[pause]
Jack: Oh! Good question, let me look at this map. Let’s see.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: It’s split, and not how I would imagine.
Austin: Yeah, it’s just like, “bloop!”
Jack: Yeah, what is the city that is --
Ali: [crosstalk] Oh, well then what happened to that part of Oregon, if we’re gonna be saying that? Or Kansas?
Keith: Or North Dakota.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: I find Indiana the most egregious.
Austin: I mean, Arizona.
Keith: Kansas is definitely the most egregious.
Ali: Kansas is -- Yeah.
Keith: But yes, Indiana is bad. You can be in the exact same latitude and be in -- and like, your neighbor to the north has a different time zone than you.
Austin: Sorry, which one are we saying is the worst?
Keith: Kansas. Kansas.
Ali: [crosstalk] Kansas.
Austin: Sorry, I have to find Kansas. Okay. Yeah, I --
Keith: See, it’s got a notch, a huge notch taken out of it.
Austin: It does. It does. Oregon has the same thing, but it’s a little -- Look at the bottom of the southeast of Oregon.
Keith: [crosstalk] Oh yeah, it does.
Jack: The thing that’s weird is there’s not --
Austin: [crosstalk] What are you doing?
Jack: There are no large cities or features in that western side of Kansas that would make me -- You know, if you’re looking at gerrymandering, you’re like “Ah, there’s some reason that they’re doing this,” but it’s just little towns all up and down that side of Kansas.
Austin: [typing] Why Kansas time zone?
Ali: The little towns will do you.
Keith: Um --
Art: Maybe just like, those people interact more with Colorado, so having the time zone lined up is important?
Keith: Yeah, I think you can see that with Michigan and Wisconsin there, where there’s like, the border of Wisconsin is all Wisconsin time, but the whole rest of Michigan is Eastern.
Austin: Something wild is true about this.
Art: [crosstalk] Well the U.P. is a fucking land for…
Austin: This has changed over time. More of Kansas used to be in Mountain.
Keith: Wow. And they said no.
Austin: They said no.
Ali: Well then, I guess, yeah.
Austin: [crosstalk] Here, look at this image. This image is where it is now. And this makes sense, right. The reason it’s like that is, those four counties are like, “We’re still in Mountain.
Ali: Ohh.
Jack: They’re holdouts.
Art: Maybe there’s mountains over there, I don’t know.
Keith: I bet it’s too dark at night there.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: [laughing] It’s too dark.
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: You gotta watch out.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: The Arizona one is the thing that fucks me up. Where it’s just like, “We don’t do daylight savings.”
Keith: Good for them.
Austin: And so for half the year, part of, but not the whole state. [Ali laughs] It’s the part that’s slashed here.
Keith: Oh, it’s --
Art: [crosstalk] I thought they changed, I thought that they do do daylight savings, just a truncated daylight savings.
Keith: [crosstalk] But they only do daylight savings.
Art: No, they just do a shorter…
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: Let’s see.
Keith: I would like it to be like, every one of the dark lines doesn’t do it, but all the bright lines do, so you’ve got this like, candy cane effect of every few miles, they either are or aren’t doing daylight savings.
Jack: It would be bizarre.
Keith: [laughing] It would be really bizarre! There would be no reason to do that!
Jack: And deeply confusing as well.
Austin: Right.
Jack: All the shops close on this weird zigzag.
Austin: It seems like all Arizona’s Mountain Time Zone since ‘68. [reading] “Most of the state, except the Navajo nation does not observe daylight savings and remains on Mountain Standard Time all year. This results in most of Arizona having the same time as California for March to November when locations in the Pacific Time Zone observe daylight savings time.” So for March to November, it’s just part of their deal, in terms of time. It’s very weird.
Jack: Huh.
Keith: I would like us to all not do it.
Austin: Sure.
Keith: In the whole country.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Why, it’s so fucking dark right now.
Keith: Oh sorry, well it can be either one or the other. It can be, we always have daylight savings, is the --
Austin: But then it’s really dark in the morning, isn’t that the thing?
Art: [crosstalk] I’m on board with always daylight savings. Yeah, that doesn’t bother me as much.
Keith: Yeah, that’s really what I mean, is get rid of the change, do the one where it’s brighter later, because people don’t wake up at 5 am anymore.
Austin: Some people do.
Jack: [crosstalk] Classic Nick Drake album Bryter Layter.
Ali: [crosstalk] Yeah.
Keith: [crosstalk] Some people do.
Jack: Lots of people wake up at 5 am!
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: Yeah, but those people are still awake at 7 pm and I bet would like it to not be pitch black out.
Austin: Right, sure.
Jack: That’s -- Yeah, that is true.
Austin: Mm. Maybe.
Jack: I remember when I had to get up really early to go to school in the winter and it would -- You know, it’s dark when you go into school and it’s dark when you come out of school at the end of the day.
Keith: Yeah, it’s miserable.
Jack: [crosstalk] That sucks. Just another reason school’s awful.
Austin: Yeah, one of many. One of many reasons.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And I’m not grateful for knowing how to read or count.
Keith: [laughs] You can learn that anywhere!
Jack: Mm-hm!
Keith: And you can learn it in the middle of the day and then you can have where it’s bright out to read or something.
Jack: [crosstalk] Or to think about Dragonball.
Keith: Yeah, you can learn how to read at night when it’s dark. It’s probably even a better time.
Austin: This is the Dragonball podcast we’re doing, right? That’s this one? [Ali laughs] We’re gonna talk about Goku’s heart conditions?
Jack: Yeah, yeah!
Keith: Yeah, yesterday Jack watched the entire King Piccolo saga.
Austin: Nice, nice.
Jack: That’s true, I did. Still don’t know shit about Piccolo, other than he’s evil but then he turns good.
Austin: Well, that’s not exactly right, but it’s sort of right.
Keith: It -- It’s right!
Austin: Yeah, but you know, it gets complicated right? Because King Piccolo and Piccolo as we know them are different beings.
Keith: Yeah, but he’s evil at least until the movie between Dragonball and Dragonball Z.
Austin: Yes. Yeah, that’s right. Yeah.
Jack: Let’s clap!
Austin: [chuckles] I closed time.gov.
[someone applauds]
Jack: This happens -- I do this all the time.
Austin: Oh, time.is is up!
[Ali gasps]
Jack: Oh yeah, let’s go! Fuck this shit, goodbye!
[Ali laughs]
Keith: Phew.
Ali: Phew.
Keith: [reading] “Tomorrow’s climate disasters will make today’s floods and wildfires look like a sunny day at the beach.”
Ali: Oh my god! Aria Joie!
Keith: Thanks, Patrick Metzger.
Art: This isn’t really what I’m coming here for.
Jack: He is right, though.
Austin: Yeah. Uh-huh.
Jack: Unfortunately.
Art: I don’t give a fuck how right he is!
[Ali and Jack laugh]
Austin: Huh.
Art: I’m trying to have a good time clapping at my job.
[Jack laughs]
Ali: Okay. Let’s do seven -- 57?
Austin: Sure.
[pause. clap]
Art: Sounded bad.
[Ali laughs]
Keith: I liked it.
Ali: 4:05?
[pause. clap]
Austin: Art?
Art: I mean… better, not great, but I’m…
Austin: You know. It’s gonna be what it is.
Ali: We’re all fine.
Austin: At a certain point. At a certain point, right? Cool. Uh… All right. Should we just jump back into it, Ali?
Ali: I suppose so, yeah. Why not?
Austin: Okay.
[No Crisis by Jack de Quidt plays]
[END OF RECORDING]