Clapcast 07: TableFriends Lets Play Spencers Dot Com
Transcriber: ren (happierstories#8865), thedreadbiter
[segment 1]
Austin: Uh, Tender is a Mystic.
Art: Okay, I didn't-- I confess, I only like, barely skimmed the classes that I knew weren't gonna be me?
Austin: Yeah, that's fair.
Art: Like, it was just like, "Okay. This isn't what I want."
Austin: Yes. Mystic is basically a Jedi. It's like a Jedi, or a psychic, magic person. So.
Art: I saw that there was definitely like, a stat for that. (cross) Like, cause I, yeah — 
Austin: (cross) Yeah, Attune. Attune.
Art: (cont) And I was like, I couldn't figure out what the point of that stat is for someone who's not over there in this setting? 
Austin: Yeah.
Art: And like, you could talk me into it, but it feels like-- (cross) Like, okay.
Austin: (cross) Yeah. There's a good page in the book-- In the earlier version of the book that we had, there's a really good subsection that's like, "This is what Attune does, for everybody." Right? So like, this is like the person who is just a Scoundrel-y, criminal person, and who Attunes to sense danger. Right? Or this is the person who is a stealthy sneaky assassin and who Attunes in order to... speak to anim-- like, guard dogs, to command them better. So basically using Attune to set up her Command roll so it has better effect. There's one that's like, you know, "Here's a weird ancient box, what the fuck does this do?" And I'll Attune to it to try and do it. None of that is stuff that Grand Mag does, though, so I don't think that that's...
Art: Yeah.
Austin: (cross) I think that you're right.
Art: (cross) And like this isn't-- This isn't true from like the Smuggler playbook, but to quote whoever CM Punk is quoting when he says this: "Luck is for losers."
Austin: (chuckles) Is that-- Who is he quoting?
Art: I have no idea, but I don't believe that CM Punk came up with that.
Austin: No?
Art: No, right? I mean like, CM Punk is a pretty good wrestler, I don't think he's a good like, philosopher.
Austin: (laughing) You think "luck is for losers" is like a famous philosophy quote?
Art: Yeah, I think that's probably Socrates? I think it's Socrates (cross) who said that.
Austin: (cross) Oh, yeah. Definitely. (pause) I think i-- This looks like it was him.
Art: (disbelieving) Really?
Austin: "Luck is-- Luck, good luck? GM, the last time I checked, luck is for losers." And this seems to be in, uh, 2007-era WWE ECW. 
Art: Mm. I just-- Don't you feel like it's in-- It's from Bad News Bears or something, like...
Austin: Yes. That's fair.
Art: Not Walter Matthau, but like, the bad coach?
Austin: The bad coach, yeah yeah yeah.
Art: Ali, I'm so sorry about this recording.
Austin: What's happening?
Art: I just-- I'm fiddling with it, like I'm noticing little things, and I'm overcorrecting, and I've done it like six times now—
Austin: Okay, well--
Art: (cont) And I know she fucking hates it when I do that.
Austin: You should stop doing it.
Art: (chuckling) I think it's fine now.
Austin: (laughing) The good news is, that this is... This part of the recording will go onto a, a sub... A different file anyways, the mechanics thing is gonna go separate from the vignettes.
Art: Alright.
Austin: So people can just skip it, and (chuckle) not deal with your bad audio.
Art: Yeah. I mean, I don't think it's-- There's only a couple points I've been like, "Oh, this is unusable," but I know she doesn't like it when it's like, at a point, and then it's different, and then it goes back.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: And I'm-- (cross) always doing that.
Austin: (cross) You're all over that. Yeah, okay.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: Great. (sighs)
Art: 'Cause if I'm not-- if it's, if I'm creeping up or creeping down, I wanna fix it, and I always like... I got stupid fingers when it comes to that gain dial.
Austin: This is saying it's Alaska Young. Said "Luck is for losers".
Art: Uh, that-- Is that another wrestler? That's a wrestler name, right? That's--
Austin: (laughs) I think it's a young adult fiction--
Art: Oh.
Austin: --name.
Art: Um,
Austin: Her name's Alaska Young, she's-- a supporting character in the book Looking for Alaska. (chuckles)
Art: Is this real, or is this, are we doing a bit right now?
Austin: This is real. (cross) Looking for Alaska, “first friend”—  
Art: (cross) Oh, okay, I thought we were like— 
Austin: (cont) “first girl, last words”. By John Green.
Art: Mm. Oh, is John Green the, um... Not Silver Linings Playbook, is he... Goddammit. Um. I'm just gonna give you the plot of a young adult novel, but I don't think it's specific enough, it's like--
Austin: I-- 
Art: They go to a small town— 
Austin: Uh-huh.
Art: —but like a, paper town, Paper Towns is the name of the movie. Is John— 
Austin: Oh.
Art: (cont) is he the Paper Towns guy? 
Austin: I-- I don't--. I don't think so. You're close though.
Art: Oh.
Austin: Or like, maybe, he might be that. He's a different young adult-- Here's another one that got turned into a movie.
Art: Um, but it's like a kind of (cross) insipid one, right? Okay, yeah.
Austin: (cross) Oh, you know what, yes. He was also Paper Towns. Yes.
Art: Alright.
Austin: The one that I thought it w-- The one that he also is is The Fault In Our Stars.
Art: There we go. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. uh. Lots of those. Anyway.
Art: Yeah. Sorry. This is not-- This isn't even good. 
Austin: This is not even Clapcast worthy, frankly.
Art: Yeah, this is just (cross) banter
Austin: (cross) This is just y-- fucking cut it, it's late, (Art laughs), I'm tired.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: (cross) I'm not in that spot.
Art: (cross) I mean, like this would be fine, this is fine for us just dicking around, but for being in front of a microphone, it's not good enough (chuckling)
Austin: (chuckling) No. Alright.
Art: If we were over at dinner this would be A+.
Austin: (laughs) Okay. So, uh...
[interstitial synth music]
[04:55 - segment 2]
Art: It's-- like, I went to Minnesota for a week, and it's cold as shit there.
Austin: (laughing) Yeah.
Art: And I came back, and it's like LA cold here?
Austin: Mm-hm.
Art: and I'm still complaining about it being cold, and people will listen to you when it's 25 and snowing, and be like, "Yeah, it's fucking cold, sorry about that, dude." And you're like, "It's fucking 56 degrees outside, I'm freezing to death," no one-- no one cares. (cross) No one--
Austin: (cross) No. Bye.
Art: -- even wants to talk to you (cross) about that.
Austin: (cross) I'm mad at you. (laughing) I'm mad at you (cross) and it might be 55 tomorrow, like.
Art: (cross) I'm wearing sweatpants and a jacket (chuckling)
[interstitial synth music]
[05:25 - segment 3]
Austin: Um. Which lets you--
Art: Sure.
Austin: You're machine Gambit, from the X-men series when he joined the Reapers.
Art: Yeah. Wow.
Austin: "Never tell me the odds." Yeah, that's a pull, right? (laughs)
Art: Uh-huh. Well he's always had those-- He always-- he had like, cyborg-- Gambit had cyborg eyes, because he was invented at a time where everyone had to fucking (cross) cyborg something?
Austin: (cross) Does he actually have cyborg eyes? Are those red eyes really cyborg eyes?
Art: I think so. I think that's what it is.
Austin: Huh.
Art: Because like, while it was 1990 in X-men comics,
Austin: yeahyeahyeah.
Art: (cont) It was also like, the far-flung future, just all the time.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Yeah. 
Austin: Are you ssssssure those are-- mm.
Art: No, I mean this is a thing that I remember from when I was eight and it's very possible that it's just a urban legend.
Austin: He was-- He was (reading) "abandoned at birth due to his burning red eyes." (scoffs)
Art: Mm, so I guess they're not machine eyes.
Austin: I'm typing the word "cyborg" in here. Also, I said "reapers," I think I meant "Reavers"? Right?
Art: Um, I dunno. I know Reavers are what's in Firefly. 
Austin: Yeah. They're also in X-men, it's the same group.
Art: Yeah that makes sense.
Austin: (laughing) Okay, I'm gonna close this and stop looking up Gambit facts.
Art: I wonder if I could get, like, a Youtube video that just explains X-men from, like, my date of birth until now, or like, some other similar point, and how-- completely insane that person must sound. Like, 
Austin: Maybe.
Art: (cont) Explaining X-men continuity, I think, is the... the garbage talk of comics.
Austin: Yes. (laughing) I'm looking at the Gambit page currently, and yes. It's...
Art: Yeah.
Austin: (sighs, clicks tongue) Like, here's my favorite sentence here. Not my favorite one, (Art laughing) it's just a sentence, 'cause it just doesn't mean anything. "Gambit was knocked unconscious and taken away by Sunfire, who had become the horseman Famine, but had overcome his programming with the help of Emma Frost." uh-- Yeah, okay. (laughing) Great.
Art: Yeah. And you can tell me that was any year.
Austin: Right. Of course (laughing)
Art: You could be like, "That happened in 1994," or "That happened 6 months ago," (cross) and I'd be like, "Yeah, sure."
Austin: (cross) I need to find this incredible con-- this incredible... Here it is. This is another comics thing, but it's not a Marvel thing. This is... I linked this to Jack recently, and I said, (forcefully) "Do not click a single link here. Read this like it's paper. (Art and Austin laughing) Only build context through what else is here." And it's... (reading) "The Anti-Life Equation is a fictional mathematical equation appearing in blah-blah-blah." And the specific thing that got me there, was uh... God, where was this-- There was an amazing frame in here somewhere that talks about the Anti-Life Equation, which is again, the context is that it is a thing in Jack Kirby comics, from the DC comics, that has like, pushed forward in time?
Art: Yeah, it's The Thing that the bad guys want in the Fourth World.
Austin: Yes. Exactly. Uh... fuck, where is it, there's a specific-- and Ali, this should all go into Clapcasts, this is that Clapcast stuff. Um... (Art laughs) I know I get only one, per season, and that's my one. Um..... God, I have to find this exact-- There's one phrase that's just nonsense. 
Art: Well, while you're looking for it, I wanna take this moment to tell anyone who might be listening to this to go and read the Grant Morrison (cross) Seven Soldiers of Victory mini-series?
Austin: (cross) So good. It's so fuckin' good.
Art: (cont) that does New Gods as like, this reimagined lower power level thing, because it's amazing. That is the best interpretation of any of those characters since Kirby. With the possible exception of whoever did that Orion run, was that...
Austin: I dunno, I haven't read that.
Art: Walts-- Walter Simonson wrote and drew Orion for like, I dunno, 18 issues, (cross) and it's A+.
Austin: I found-- okay. I found it. (reading) "During the Final Crisis, Darkside's plan comes to fruition even without Pied Piper's help. In fact, using the quote "spoken" form of the Anti-Life, Darkside, reborn after his death as "Boss Darkside" on Earth, is able to rebuild a strong power base on Earth, having Mecari unleash the Anti-Life Equation through the Internet by email, turning those exposed to it into his mindless slaves. Libra used the Anti-Life Equation to turn several members of his secret society of supervillains into Justifiers, while some of Earth's superheroines and supervillainesses were converted into new versions of the Female Furies." Great paragraph.
Art: Yeah. (cross) Grant Morrison is a fantastic comics book writer
Austin: (cross) It was a-- (laughing) Sorry, the next thing is--
Art: (cont) and Final Crisis is nonsense.
Austin: The next sentence is so good. (reading) "It was revealed that the equation," again, the Anti-Life Equation,
Art: uh-huh.
Austin: (cont, growing increasingly incredulous) "can be countered by drawing the New Genesis word for freedom on one's face." WHAT?!
Art: Yeah, that's just.
Austin: You just write "freedom" on your face and you're good against the "Anti-Life Equation"?
Art: I mean, this is how I know you skipped too many math classes in college, because this is (Austin cackling) that's just, they teach you that there, like...
Austin: Oh, I just also remembered the other part of this that's just so good, which is, "Jack Kirby's original comics established the Anti-Life Equation as giving the being who learns it the power to dominate will of all sentient and sapient races." Okay.
Art: Of course.
Austin: Good so far.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: Then this one's also fine. "It's also called the Anti-Life Equation because quote, "if someone possesses absolute control over it, you're not really alive,"" Totally good. Third sentence. Ready? "Most stor--" Uh, third sentence also fine. "Most stories featuring the equation use this concept." Also good. Fourth sentence. "The Forever People's mother box found the Anti-Life Equation in Sunny Sumo, but Darkside, unaware of this, stranded him in ancient Japan." (disbelieving) Okay. (laughing)
Art: Uh-huh. Yeah. (cross) That's, um...
Austin: (cross) The Forever People's mother box. Of course.
Art: Yeah, the Forever People were a, like a group of divine motorcycle people, who hung out with Jimmy Olsen.
Austin: I-- yeah. Okay. Yeah.
Art: A stunning number of the Kirby New Gods characters had their first appearance in Superman's Pouch in the Olsen comic book series.
Austin: Why?
Art: Because that's like, what he was doing. It was like, (laughing) "I won't do all this stuff, but I'm working on Jimmy Olsen, so Jimmy Olsen is gonna meet some people." 
Austin: Oh my god. I just-- oh. Also, "New Genesis"-- what a weird place this looks like. Is this just the Bible?
Art: Uh, no, it's New Genesis. The Bible is Old Genesis. C'mon Austin, I thought you went to Catholic school.
Austin: Wait-- The New Genesis' dark counterpart is a-- I didn't realize it was related to Apocalypse,
Art: Yeah.
Austin: (cont) not the X-men character, but the place in DC.
Art: The planet, the DC planet Apocalypse and New Genesis are the two planets the New Gods live on. And those are planets that you can't get to without a mother box? Like they're not-- You couldn't --
Austin: (resigned) Okay. What about--
Art: (cont) If you got in a rocketship you couldn't (cross) fly there.
Austin: (cross) I have a question: what if I had a boomtube?
Art: A boomtube is what you get from a mother box, yes.
Austin: So you open up a mother box, and inside there's a boomtube?
Art: No, you have a mother box, and it goes "ping ping ping," and a boomtube opens? The boomtube goes "boom".
Austin: (cackling) Of course a boomtube goes boom! What else would it do?
Art: Yeah, it's like (low intoning) "boooooooooom," and then there's a tube-- It's hard because it's always in a comic book. Movie and TV interpretations of boomtubes, I have thought, have been suspiciously quiet. 
Austin: (chuckles) Are-- Are the New Gods... Alright. So there are the New Gods.
Art: Uh-huh. Yeah.
Austin: And then there's also the... Marvel ones, who are not the New Gods.
Art: I believe you mean... oh, what are they, they're-- 'Cause Kirby just went back and did it again over there. (cross) And they're not
Austin: (cross) It's not the Sentinels, it's like the... 
Art: They're not the Inhumans, oh, they're the Celestials.
Austin: The Celest-- but they're-- But, are the Inhumans also related in some way.
Art: No, the Inhumans are (chuckling) people who've been exposed to the Terrigan Mists.
Austin: (unsure) Oh-- Like, they got high?
Art: They recently-- 'Cause like, did you follow the stuff (cross) that Marvel
Austin: (cross) Wait, but he did come up with them.
Art: Yeah. But they're not his, like, answer to New Gods the way...
Austin: The way the Celestials are. (cross) Did I read what?
Art: (cross) I think that's right. Did, uh-- hold on, let me... Let me type one thing into Google and I will...
Austin: I read the Neil Gaiman remake of the Celestials
Art: Yeah, that's Kirby's thing.
Austin: Okay. Apparently the Celestia-- (cross) A Celestial was a
Art: (cross) Oh, Eternals, Eternals is, it's Eternals.
Austin: Oh, it's Eternals! The one with the Celestials.
Art: I don't-- have no fucking clue.
Austin: It's Jack Kirby again! Is there a third one of these? Wait-- The Celestials debuted in Eternals #01. Wha-- (astonished laughing)
Art: Are they just like a faction of Eternals? (chuckling)
Austin: (laughing) Is this what it's like to listen to our podcast?
Art: Celestials Race on marvel.wikia.com (laughing) Yeah, these are some. These are, uh--
Austin: Oh! The Eternals are like the superheroes.
Art: Okay.
Austin: (cont) And the Celestials are like the big machines, remember?
Art: Yeah, okay yeah, this is... (cross) This is all
Austin: (cross) Are there boomtubes?
Art: (cont) that same kind of-- No, there's no-- Marvel doesn't have boomtubes, c'mon.
Austin: It has that dog. (pause) (cross) What's that dog's name?
Art: (cross) Yeah, I don't think this makes-- Lock-- Lockjaw?
Austin: Is Lock-- I'm gonna type this in Google. "Is Lockjaw a mother box". I typed in "mother boax". (laughing)
Art: (laughing) Like with an A?
Austin: With a-- Also an A was in there. (pause) It does-- It says that no. No, Lockbox-- Lockjaw is not a mother box. (laughing)
Art: Lockbox was probably a name for him at one point. Someone was like, "Dude, we're gonna get sued. You made this over there, you can't just--"
Austin: (cracking up) "You can't just call him--"
Art: "You can't just have "box"s everywhere." (Austin crylaughing) "Also, it's a dog! Give him a dog name!"
Austin: "Alright, fine, Lockjaw." (descends into wheezing)
Art: Yeah, sure. Sure, Jack, yeah.
Austin: (laughing) Also-- also, he's really Big. (Art and Austin laughing) He's like a Giant dog!
Art: Yeah, he's a dog that's the size of a small horse. 
Austin: (laughing far from the mic) Oh. (reading, laughing gets increasingly worse) "Lockjaw seemingly has quote, super canine strength in his jaw for a dog his age and size"! (crylaughing)
Art: (laughing) That's insane! A dog that big, (Austin laughing wildly) I would believe has any amount of jaw strength (laughing)
Austin: (laughing) Oh! "At one time, he locked onto the Thing's arm, and the Thing could not get him to let go. Lockjaw could--" Also, that's the first thing it says (Art giggling) under Powers and Abilities for Lockjaw. (nearly incomprensible) After super-canine strength in his jaw, it THEN says, "Lockjaw can also teleport himself and nearby living creatures and matter to anywhere he wants, from Earth to the Moon (Art laughing), and can even open passages between dimensions." THAT doesn't rate. That's the second thing it lists!
Art: Yeah, but like, he can bite real hard.
Austin: (incredulous) he can bite real hard! Oh. Also he can teleport through energy barriers, and he can sense psionically a given scent across dimensional space. (inhales, exhales quickly) Also, Lockjaw's capable of chewing and swallowing inorganic material such as scraps of sophisticated robots (laughing)
(Art and Austin keep laughing)
Art: (laughing) "Sophisticated robots" is a lot.
Austin: It is not known if this is his primary source of nourishment.
Art: Was Lockjaw on the TV show? The Inhumans (cross) TV show that they just did?
Austin: (cross) Yeah. It's a big fucking dog, have you not seen it?
Art: No, does-- is it bad? Does it look bad?
Austin: Have you-- OH, my god, does it look bad. I was gonna link you a picture. Did you see any of the, like anything from that show? Like any of the trailers?
Art: No, I have-- I honestly didn't. Like I just heard, like, "That was really bad, and got canceled," and I was like, oh, Inhumans came out? (chuckling)
Austin: So I'm gonna copy this image, I'm gonna pop this right here.
Art: Alright.
Austin: (half-wheezing) You know what? I'm gonna put this in Bluff City chat.
Art: Alright, yeah.
Austin: So that's one.
Art: I'll meetcha there. (Austin low chuckling) Oh, no.
Austin: (laughing) There's two! this is the better one.
Art: He's too dog-like.
Austin: There's just an image of the blue, like-- (Art snorting, Austin cackling) There's just like a blue dog statue! (laughing, strained) it's really good
Art: Just-- is it articulated? Like--
Austin: I don't think so. 
Art: Do they have like-- so are there like twenty of those?
Austin: I don't know! (more normal tone) This last one's really good, it's so big. He's so big.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: Inhumans, that's the one where the guy can't talk. Right?
Art: Yeah, uh-huh.
Austin: Or he could, but he'll kill you.
Art: Yeah, he'll kill you if he talks. Black Bolt. Which seems like a bad lead character for a TV show?
Austin: That's the problem, right?
Art: Yeah. In comic books, you can get a lot of stuff across, 'cause reading isn't a big impediment (both chuckling)
Austin: Right, you can read his thoughts, for instance.
Art: Or like, someone could be like, "He says this," and it's not just super annoying. 
Austin: (laughing) Right, of course. That's also Jack Kirby. Jack Kirby... I mean that was-- okay, that says Jack Kirby & Stan Lee, I know the Inhumans are like, both. But. Mrm. (displeased) Mrmm.
Art: Yeah. I mean this (cross) this is
Austin: (cross) I know that-- I've heard what they say about Stan Lee.
Art: I mean this is Jack Kirby on his bullshit, right?
Austin: Yes.
Art: Like, "Yep. Giant dog, Jack, sure."
Austin: (breathless) Aw, man.
Art: "We gonna have pages in today?"
Austin: (hearty laughing) "Let him have the dog. Let him have the dog, it means we'll get a fucking submission."
Art: "Yeah. Giant dog, and the guy has a tuning fork in his head. Love it. Let's go."
Austin: Well they took the tuning fork off, for the TV show.
Art: Oh, sure, of course they did. Right? 'Cause-- I've been watching-- I've been watching Supergirl, for the last couple of days, I've decided, that, y'know, I'm here in the house alone, and I'm just gonna fuckin' have something on, and it's been Supergirl, and I've really been impressed on how that show is just like, "Yeah, people wear costumes."
Austin: Right.
Art: "Fine, she wears this blue outfit, fuckin' all the time." Whereas, yeah, a lot of the Marvel stuff seems to be like, very costume light?
Austin: Right. I mean, I think it goes back to the fact to the first X-men movie, where there was just secret agent leather, right?
Art: Yeah. And that's cool, but like, there is something to be said for like, Costumes, you know?
Austin: Yes. I like Costumes. I'm good with it. Something to think about, maybe, Grand Magnificent.
Art: (chuckling) Yeah.
Austin: Alright, I'm gonna stop-- talking about this, we should finish this scene and your character and stuff.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: Ah, we got there. We got to some good junk in there, though. So--
[interstitial synth music]
[19:55 - segment 4]
Austin: So, uh, Gig, let's talk about your character in... Oh we have to clap. We have to do a clap. We didn't clap. 
Keith: Yeah, sorry, I derailed (cross) the clap.
Austin: (cross) That's fine, let's do it at... 50? Or 45? 
Keith: 50? Sure.
Austin: 45's fine.
(clap)
Austin: Good clap. On my side, anyway.
Keith: Great, I'm glad.
Austin: Yeah, it sounded good to me.
Keith: Yeah. My side is one of the ones where it was like, a very clear two second gap?
Austin: Right.
Keith: Which is like, oh, that's just lag.
Austin: That's just lag. I hope--
Keith: My favorite is when I clap, and then I hear everyone else clap at the exact same time, and then you go, "That was perfect," and I'm like, "Ok, that's what the lag is, then."
Austin: (chuckles) Yeah. "That's just the lag, I guess." Alright.
[interstitial synth music
[20:35 - segment 5]
Austin: We should clap, that's what we should do. I was about to talk, and then I was like, "Wait, no, nope! (cross) gotta clap."
Janine: (cross) Nope. Yep.
Austin: Alright. You wanna clap at... 25?
Janine: Sure.
(clap)
Austin: Sounded good.
(skeptical noise/sniff)
Austin: It did, it sounded good.
Janine: (laughing) Okay, it sounded... It never sounds good to me, even when it's right? (Austin makes a dissatisfied hum) It's... yeah.
Austin: We can do one more, if you want.
Janine: No, I me-- If it sounds right to you, then it's right. It's--
Austin: I don't know that that's true either. (laughing) (cross) It might be true.
Janine: (cross) I'm sure it's fine. (laughs lightly)
Austin: Okay. Um...
[interstitial synth music]
[21:11 - segment 6]
Austin: I'm gonna find it really quick. (cross) Ali, cut this part.
Keith: (cross) I think-- I think it was like, Young Adventurer. Even though he's kind of neither.
Austin: Yeah, he is-- Well, he was kind of young. Like, he's-- How old is Gig?
Keith: Um. Twenties?
Austin: Okay. I think it's.. I think he's probably like, upper twenties? You know?
Keith: Oh, okay.
Austin: Yeah, I don't think he's like, forty or anything. 'Cause he was young-- He's from a family that is... He's from like, an old family. But he isn't, himself..
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: An old boy. He isn't Old Boy? He isn't the superhero Old Boy.
Keith: Well, as long as he's not the superhero Old Boy, then I'm up for whatever. (Austin chuckles) I actually don't even know who that is.
Austin: Oh, there is not a superhero named Old Boy. There's a movie called Old Boy, and I thought it was funny to consider the notion that that could be a superhero. Because it would be fucked up-- (laughing) That would be a fucked up superhero.
Keith: (cross) I think I've seen Old Boy-- Is that like a Korean movie?
Austin: It is a Korean movie.
Keith: I think I've either seen it or... seen a bit of it.
Austin: Uh, alright, give me one second, I'm gonna find this guy's voice. We're not gonna jump right to him anyways, but I need to have it in my head.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: 'Cause that way I'll know what he'll do, y'know? Like, I need to start thinking about his psychology.
Keith: Exactly.
Austin: That's how this shit works.
Keith: Mm-hm. We can't-- We don't have any characters that we don't have a detailed psychic-- psychic. Psychology dossier on.
Austin: Also a psychic dossier. We talk to psychics to see. (pause) Uh... Oh yeah--
Keith: I have three binders full of tea leaf readings on Gig.
Austin: (laughs) If only.
[interstitial synth
[22:45 - segment 7]
Art: Cut every mention of weltschmerz (pronounced velt-schmerts) out, that's my next Bluff City Character.
Austin: (laughs) Oh, that's a good character. The Welt-space-Schmerz is a really good Bluff City character, travelling comedian.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: I love it. "What's your name? Felt? Felt?" (world weary) "Yeah, Felt."
Art: (sympathetic) Yeah.
Austin: "Yeah, that's me." Um,
Art: Oh, that's why he works at the casino!
Austin: 'Cause-- (cackles)
Art: They hired him because they thought he was Felt Schmerz, and it's like, "Yeah, put this guy on a stage in the middle of the craps pit, and he'll tell jokes and people won't notice they're losin' the craps!"
Austin: (laughing, affecting Bluff City accent) "Perfect!"
Art: "Perfect!"
Austin: Oh.
Art: "Put him on the marquee! 'The Menagerie Presents:'"
Art and Austin simultaneously, one proud, one exasperated: "'Felt Schmerz!'"
Austin: "We gotta come up with a new last name. Let's call 'im Mr. Felt."
Art: (wheezing) "Felt Smith!"
Austin: "Felt Smith, that's him. Felt Johnson. Nope, can't be that one." (Art laughs) Oh.
Art: "Oh, we already got the Felt Joh-- (disappointed) oh."
Austin: Okay. Oy.
[interstitial synth music]
[23:49 - segment 8]
Austin: Good. We found-- We're doing it! We're out of that bad dinner party, and now we're at good material.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: Also, (laughing) this is gonna be cut up into three different things, so good luck piecing together these bits! (laughing) (cross) Alright.
Art: (cross) No, I think that this-- we should just release this as a full uncut, fifty-four minute
Austin: (cross) Mainline episode.
Art:  (cross) just barely getting into (laughing)
Austin: Welcome to Twilight Mirage, episode, uh 27, in this episode Art and I just bit at each other.
Art: Yeah, uh. Yeah, this is a lot like being in Alliance, Floor Four must've been like (Austin chuckles) in 2006.
Austin: (sighing) Oh. Yeah, pretty much.
Art: None of our friends want to talk to us and so we're watching Home Movies and talking about (laughing)
Austin: About (laughing) German ennui!
Art: Yeah.
Austin: It's great. And making RPG characters, also, to be honest.
[interstitial synth]
[24:42 - segment 9]
Art: Alright, so this is, like acceptable, people can...?
Jack: Yeayeayeayeah.
Janine: Mmyeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Art: What about like here?
Austin: I don't think that changed at all.
Ali: Unchanging. (chuckles)
Art: (as loud and crackly as possible) Okay, I'm just gonna like, radically--
Ali: Wow, whuwhu, okay--
(crosstalk, laughter)
Ali: (laughing) okay.
Keith: (sounds like his audio got cut off) --thing. It does do something.
Austin: Yeah.
Art: Well, 'cause I kept like, inching (cross)
Austin: (cross) that-- was hell.
Art: (cont) my gain up, and was like, "Nothing's happening, nothing's happening," like, fuck it, I'm going to 90.
Jack: Mm, bad, bad (cross) decision.
Ali: (cross) Mmkay. Like 70...? 65? 
(pause)
Austin: No, I'd (cross) rock him back down to 100,
Ali: (cross) I don't
Art: (still a bit audio-mushy) No, no, I went all the way, (cross) that was, what?
Ali: (cross) Oh,
Janine: (cross) Jesus.
Austin: What is this?
Art: That was--
(Ali laughing)
Keith: That's still too muuuuch.
Jack: Art, that was so frightening, I dropped a vitamin that I was holding. (laughter) I literally just flung a pill across the room. (laughing) 
Art: (simultaneously, a bit crunchy) That was such a little change, though! Wh (crunches)
Keith: (simultaneously) What was the...
Austin: No, nope! Oh my god,
Jack: No, nope still bad
Ali: Nooo!
Keith: Yeah, it's still bad.
Austin: This is one of the-- I think he has the thing, I think he has the same-- mixer problem that I have.
Art: I think I do too-- I went back (getting crunchier)
Sylvia: Shake it up!
Art: (cont) (the crunchiest) to the same part, but now
Austin: Yeah, but this is my problem.
Keith: Yeah, that's it.
Austin: I know this sound. This is the same sound.
Jack: Yep. That is an XLR cable.
Janine: Ohhh.
Austin: This is the same thing!
Keith: I know that sound. That's an XLR sound. I know that--
Ali: Oh yeah?
Austin: Fuck-- So I replaced my XLR cable, Keith, it didn't fix it. It's definitely the mixer.
Keith: (distant) Oh is it the m-- (closer to mic) Maybe it's the XLR inputs on the mixer for the mic.
Austin: Yes, that is what I think it is. How long have you had that mixer, Art?
Art: Uh, a long time, and I've been wanting to get a new one, (crunchy sounds) 'cause this one is... (normal) not--
Ali: Nearly broken.
Jack: Sure is.
Art: Yeah.
Austin: Mine is also fucked, yeah. Mine is also, like-- it's good right this second, so I'm not touching it, but I had to shake it a lot to make it good again.
Ali and Janine: Mm.
Art: Um... Where am I at, right now? No, that's a lot. Um... (cross) I'm not
Ali: (cross) You could be a little lighter
Austin: (cross) Come down just a little bit,
Art: I think —
Austin: You'll be fine.
Janine: You don't sound like you're screaming into a bag of chips, (laughter) so that's like a start, but.
Art: But this gain is now lower than where I started today.
Ali: Oh...
Keith: You're pretty good, but you're still a little clippy.
Jack: Yeah...
Keith: (simultaneously) Like a liiittle bit
Art: (simultaneously) Audacity's telling me I am not good. Audacity disagrees with everyone.
Keith: What is Audacity saying, that you're (cross) very clippy, or that you're really quiet?
Art: (cross) Audacity's saying I'm-- I'm peaking.
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: (simultaneously) Audacity needs a clippy.
Keith: (simultaneously) Yeah, you could try turning down-- you could try turning down the Audacity volume slider a little bit.
Art: Yeah, let's... I turned it down like, seven percent, now I'm not peaking anymore, how am I...
Keith: That sounds great. Yeah, you sound great.
Austin: Yeah, you sound good now.
Jack: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Art: Alright. Lemme get it just a little more, I'm gonna go from 75 to 77. (short pause) Why-- why isn't-- 78 is what I can do, apparently.
Ali: (laughs) Okay. That's fine.
Keith: Can I tell you this, though? You sound great. You sound great!
Art: Thank you, thank you. Um, yeah, that was a long way to go to get to where I was last time we recorded.
Keith: Yeah.
Art': But apparently I have mixer death, so.
Keith: That's weird, yeah, I've had this-- I sw-- Kylie[1] and I, this mixer that I have right now is originally the RunButton mixer that stayed at Kylie's house? But I've had it for now five years, and it is just starting to kind of break, but not in any way that (laughs) is like making it function worse auditorily.
Austin: Lemme tell ya, it's a pain in the ass.
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Austin: Is what it is.
Art: Yeah, 'cause now I'm down to like, 25 on the mixer? And it's like, there was like a magic point at like 65, where it just like, opened the floodgates of audio.
Austin: Yeah, so that-- It has nothing to do with where the mixer is at, it has to do with whether or not the signal is actually working? So-- it isn't, it's, there's a binary, "is it working or isn't it working," that then takes the mixer at whatever level it is, so it's not-- This is why I shake it, or unplug it and replug it in, is like,
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: "Oh, the connection is now working correctly, and now the level is right." My hope is that it doesn't-- If you listen to the recording I did with Keith a couple of weeks ago, it's-- bad, because I'm like, going from being at ninety percent to being at like, thirty percent? With no change in what I'm doing.
Keith: If you...
Austin: It's leveled out, it's fine, it's fine.
Keith: If you wanna do some experimenting-- not now, but (Austin and Keith laugh) at some different time-- try-- if you sort of press on or wiggle your knobs or sliders, you might find one of them that is the problem one?
Austin: Mm-hm.
Keith: And then that might-- instead of shaking your whole mixer, you might be able to just wiggle that one. I hav-- that's what I have, luckily it's only on my-- it's on a tertiary input that I just use to plug my iPhone in so I can listen to my iPhone through my headphones... on my computer.
Art: I mean-- I was pretty enthusiastic about getting a mixer that doesn't need an external power supply anyway, so I might just use this as like, the final straw?
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Then you want the-- 802. The e--
Austin: Let's do this-- let's do a post recording, tech-- order,
Keith: No? You don't just wanna do this instead? (cackles) No?
Austin: (slightly exasperated) No.
Art: We've already had a couple of these.
Austin: (sighs) God. Ugh. Whuuuf.
Ali: Oh, I don't have a sheet in the, um... do you still have to do that?
Austin: No, you do, I just have to assign it, I can't assign it until you join, so.
Ali: Oh.
Keith: Ohhhh. I just joined.
Sylvia: Is it the same Roll20 room?
Jack: Oh, let me join.
Austin: I just linked it, I just relinked it.
Sylvia: Uhm...
Keith: (quietly) I got my tea.
Ali: "Dis-able Advanced Dice."
Sylvia: Ruuuules.
Keith: Oh, I like advanced dice, I think. What's that one?
Ali: (disagreeing) Mm-mm. Mm-mmm.
Austin: Isn't that the rolls? Isn't that-- yeah. What's wrong with those?
Ali: No, don't like--
Jack: No. Never liked em. Always hated…
Keith: No, no, that's not advanced dice. That's 3d dice.
Austin: What's advanced dice? (typing noises) Wait, then what is advanced dice?
(pause)
Jack: Okay, so no one knows.
Keith: No one knows. (cackling) No one knows what advanced dice are.
Austin: Huh. Weird.
Jack: It's the one that makes us roll high.
Austin: Oh, (laughs) yeah, advance. 
Keith: I'm just googling (cross)  "dice reference roll20".
Sylvia: (cross) I don't think there's anything, they just do that.
Keith: Okay, advaaaaanced. 
(pause)
Austin: (quietly) Jaaaack, Jack. There we go.
(pause)
Ali: No.
Keith: No. I can't find out what this does on Roll20's wiki.
Austin: What's it called? "Advanced Dice"?
Keith: (whispers) Dang, I got the hiccups, you guys.
Jack: Oh, no.
Austin: (reading in the background?) "where I can just drag and drop the icons" I don't know what that is.
Keith: I got my famous four-hour hiccups. (Ali makes a sound) Buckle up.
Austin: Oh, no. That's-- a lot.
Keith: Yeah, no, it's not true.
(pause)
Janine: I, um, so there's no one in the house but me right now, so I've like, tricked Annie into not being worried about that by letting her in my room unsupervised?
(Ali giggles)
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: Oh!
Janine: Like, my bedroom?
Austin: Your bedroom, your bedroom.
Janine: 'Cause she likes sleeping on the bed and it seems to be the best way to just get her to just fucking relax in one spot.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Does your cat do the "I'm home alone, I have to scream," thing?
Janine: Yeah. She does it-- not even when she's home alone, but like, especially when she thinks she's alone. It's like--
Austin: Mm.
Janine: (cont) even if I'm like, down the hall and the door is open, sometimes she'll just do it until I'm like, "Hey. Cat." (cross) And then she like, comes over. (laughs)
Keith: (cross) Oh, boy, I know exactly what that's like. (Ali giggles) Yeah, yeah, my cat does the same thing-- We'll be in like-- Me and Isaac and my cat will be in the living room, and then we'll go to bed, and the cat will watch us go into the bedroom, and then immediately be like, "MRAOW! MREOW! MREAOW!" (Janine and Ali laughing) We'll be like, "Oscar, in the bedroom," and he'll like, come in the room, and then just leave and won't make another peep. Just like, "Oh, they're here. Bye."
Austin: That's-- it's good. That's good.
Keith: He's looking out for us.
Sylvia: The way I've been keeping Einstein calm while he's in his crate healing is by putting Kitchen Nightmares on the TV.
(Janine laughs)
Ali: Nice. 
Jack: Awwwwww.
Sylvia: so he thinks there's people in the room?
Ali: Fantastic.
Austin: Good.
Janine: Same, honestly.
Austin: (laughing) Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Please put me in the healing crate (cross) and put on-- Kitchen Nightmares.
Sylvia: (cross) He's really good. (laughter) It was like-- so like, my mom has this like, box that gets her... like a bunch of Irish and English TV shows, cause it makes her feel less homesick?
Austin: Aw.
Janine: Mm.
Keith: I thought you were to describe a Lootcrate type service.
(laughter)
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, it's... She gets it every month.
Austin: (simultaneously with Sylvia) Every month, yeah.
Sylvia: But like, so I'll just come upstairs, and there'll just be like-- there's this Irish TV show of just-- people watching (cross) the like,
Jack: (cross) Gogglebox!
Sylvia: David Attenborough documentaries about nature, yeah.
Jack: Aw, it's a great show.
Keith: Wait, it's a show of (cross) people watching a documentary?
Sylvia (cross) It's the fucking-- It always confuses me, 'cause I'm just-- Like, I go upstairs, and I see this nature documentary, and I'm like, "Oh, this is cool," and it just cuts to people talking about it (Ali giggles) and like, "Wh- okay."
Jack: Well, it's like-- Yeah, Keith, it's not just nature documentaries, it's like-- like, TV.
Keith: It's--
Jack: All the TV of the week. You watch people watching the TV. Except they're just like (cross) a cross section of people from all across--
Keith: (cross) So it's just like Talking Dead, but for every show.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Just a cross section of people from all across Britain (cross) watching the same program?
Ali: (cross) But also with clips of the show?
Jack: Yeah, but with clips of the show.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: It's-- very sweet.
Austin: Weird.
Sylvia: It seems really good, actually.
Austin: It sounds good! 
Keith: What do they say about the show? Do they say, like, "Ooh, I like this one," Or like, what do they do?
Jack: They say everything that like, you do when you're watching the show,
Austin: Huh.
Jack: (cont) which is like, it's essentially just like-- it-- (sighs)
Austin: It's like having a friend.
Jack: (cross) It's like--
Keith: (cross) Oh, it's Twitter Moments--
Sylvia: (cross) It's honestly like
Keith: It's a TV show of Twitter Moments. "Fans are freaking out” (cross) 
Sylvia: (cross) Yeah.
Jack: (cross) Yeah, except that they have like
Keith: (cont) “about this week's David Attenborough documentary."
Sylvia: It's like comforting though.
Jack: Yeah, because they've handpicked the people who watch it, so it's like (cross) "Oh here's the..."
Keith: (cross) They've got a bunch of sweeties.
Jack: They've got a bunch of sweeties. So it's like, (Keith laughs) "Oh here's the guy and his elderly dad watching the David Attenborough program and like, making jokes, and oh, here are the two teenage girls watching the Nigella Lawson cooking show," and like,
Austin: This sounds nice.
Keith: That sounds fun, yeah, (cross) I like that idea.
Jack: It's a sweet show
Austin: (cross) Can we do this? How do we get into this business?
Sylvia: (overlapping) Yeah, I remember there was this really good old couple from home.
Ali: (emphatically) Yeah. (cross) That's what we should get into.
Keith: We gotta get a podcast of people that listen to our podcast and then talk about it--no, don't, let’s-- That's bad.
Austin: Nnonono, the other way! I wanna do the thing where...
Keith: Oh, you wanna do tha-- okay.
Austin: I wanna be watchin' TV and being like, "Oh, that was a funny bit, I saw this other TV show,(cross) it was also funny,"
Jack: (cross) Right, yeah, Austin's got it. Austin’s got it.
Ali: We would be great at that, oh my god.
Austin: (overlapping) We would be incredible!
Janine (overlapping) Isn't this just what Japanese TV has been doing fucking forever?
Jack: I-- yes, I think it is. (laughs, slight laughter)
Janine: Okay.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: I think--
(pause)
Sylvia: Terrace House?
Austin: Wait, is-- Does Terrace House do this? Is there a--
Ali: I thought--
Sylvia: It has like a panel I think
Janine: Oh, I--
Sylvia: I dunno, I haven't watched it, (cross) I've just heard one hundred thousand people describe it.
Janine: I was thinking like, the ones where it's like, there's just like three people's faces in circles in like the corner of a screen, and then it's a picture of like, a little dog wearing a backpack 
Sylvia: Ohyeayeahyeah.
Janine: (cont) and walkin' to school or something.
(Ali giggles)
Jack: One of the things that I like about Gogglebox is that like--
Austin: (overlap) That also sounds nice.
Ali: (overlap) The Gundam show! 
Jack: (cont) it's-- (laughs) It's like, they don't go into a studio to do it, so it's just like in these people's homes? Um,
Janine: Oh.
Jack: And they're just hanging out in their homes.
Sylvia: It's really good.
Jack: (cont) Like, the camera is facing them on the sofa watching TV.
Janine: That's cute.
Austin: This again sounds nice. I'm into it.
(Jack laughs)
Sylvia: Yeah, it is-- I've like, left it on while cooking and stuff, and it's just very soothing. It's-- Again, it's another thing that makes me understand ASMR. 
(light chuckling)
Austin: Right. (tonal shift) Alright. Um... I'm basically ready, if people are ready.
Jack: (sighing) I'm trying to... yeah.
Keith: Uh, I'm ready. Yeah I'm ready.
Ali: Yeah, uh.
Janine: Yup.
Dre: I'm good.
Ali: The-- this pizza guy might be here (laughs)
Austin: Oh, rightrightright, pizza guy, I keep forgetting.
Jack: How, what is the pizza...?
Sylvia: (low) Ooh, these character sheets are nice.
Ali: (laughs) You can start and if I just like, don't respond, just... casually move on.
Jack: By the way, Austin is repositioning Sparth [???] [35:48] in the Roll20 (laughs) right now
Austin: Yeah, I just-- I just wanna layer two different-- this isn't working, the thing I was trying to do, it just does not work. It's fine.
Keith: What kinda pizza?
Austin: Yeah, talk to us about your pizza.
Ali: (laughs) They-- I didn't order pizza. I ordered, uh, eggplant rollatini. (various oohs) Which is like fried eggplant with like, ricotta in the middle.
Austin: Mmmmm.
Jack: "Content"?x
Ali: 'Cause I wa-anted it.
Austin: What sort of content is in the middle?
Ali: Wait, what?
Jack: (simultaneously) Did you say--
Keith: (simultaneously) "Content"? Did you say there's "content in the middle" in your eggplant rollatini?
Austin: (simultaneously) "There's content in the middle"
Ali: No, I said ricotta, which (cross, Jack and Austin laugh) is a cheese (laughs)
Keith: (cross) Oh, ricotta. I love ricotta.
Jack: I thought it was an eggplant rolled up with some, y'know, with some content in the middle. 
Austin: Ohh my god.
Ali: (laughing) Yeah, it's just, y'know...
Sylvia: (laughing) You take a bite, and you're like, "Aw, what's-- why are all these printed out tweets in this fucking eggplant, (laughter) this is terrible." 
Ali: Well-- it's a subscription that I sign up to, I get it every third (laughing) of the month
Austin: God.
Art: Supplied by a guy called (someone coughing in the bg) Ric Content. 
(Ali and Dre giggling)
Keith: (overlapping) I--
Jack: (overlapping) He invented it, y'know.
Austin: (overlapping) Bluff City name, Bluff City name. Someone write it down (laughs)
Jack: it's amazing.
Keith: It's-- inside each rollatini's (cross) a miniclip 
Art: (quiet) There's no K in it, make sure you get that down.
Keith: (cont) of other people talking about them eating the rollatini.
Ali: (giggles) That's a...
Austin: Art, I have terrible news, Art can you say that again?
Art: (normal volume) No K in that, it's Ric with R-I-C. (cross) Ric Content.
Ali: (cross) Okay, fine, I know it's wrong, I just
Austin: I thought he was, I thought he was quiet. I think he's
Keith: Y'know, he's definitely quieter than he was, before.
Austin: I thought so, (cross) I thought he might be
Art: (cross) I was just a little further away from the mic,
Austin: Now it's fine, okay.
Keith: Yeah, no, you're fine now. Just get up on there.
Art: I was eating a chip and wanted to get-- my thing in
Keith: You're-- oh, you're being polite. (Ali giggles) Gotcha.
Austin: Huh.
Ali: What kinda chips??
Art: These are Pop Chips: Buffalo Ranch?
(various oohs)
Jack: Gonna Google these real quick, what's their content like?
(Ali cackles)
Austin: Yeah, tell us about their content, please.
Art: They're-- it's a good chip, but it kinda shows off the hubris that we have, 'cause we like, like these chips, but then we ordered a case of them?
Ali and Dre: (simultaneously) Oh no.
Art: And now I've been eating buffalo ranch pop chips for like two months?
Austin: Ugh. eugh.
Art: (overlapping) We should've got the assorted pop chips, which.
Austin: (overlapping) That's too many.
Ali: (overlapping) That's too many.
Art: (cont) is a variety.
(pause)
Keith: (simultaneously) I'm just not a huge fan of that k--
(ali says something simultaneously as well?)
Janine: (simultaneously) I'm trying to think of anything I've ever wanted a case of.
Austin: Right. (cross) Exactly.
Ali: (cross) Seltzer.
Jack: Oooh, maybe. Once my family got given a large crate of bananas? And...
Ali: Oh no. Nononono.
Jack: Like, let me you,
Janine: Nooooo
Jack: (cont) by banana 3 or 4, then you're like (Ali laughing) 
Keith: Well, then you've got
Jack: there are limited things you can do with bananas.
Art: Then you're racing the bananas, right?
Ali: Yeah.
Jack: Well, that's part of the problem there, Art, because-- (cross) Also, we’d been given them, so you don't want--
Janine: (cross) And you have to like, you probably have to sort them when you first get them, right, because there is that ticking clock that's gonna be different for every single banana.
Jack: It's gonna be different for every single banana, some of the bananas aren't ready to go yet? And at first that's a little disconcerting, 'cause you're like, "Why, I'd rather eat them,"
Ali: Right.
Jack: But by the time you're like, what, fifteen bananas in, (Art laughs) those early green ones were like a little gift to you from the past. (light laughter)
Keith: Well, but here's the thing with the bananas is that once you run out of time, and you go, "This banana's now inedible," boom, banana bread.
Ali: Banana bread, yes.
Janine: Yeah.
Jack: Awh, right, banana bread is good, but banana bread for the fifth time... (chuckling) in several days.
Dre: You can bake it and freeze it though.
Ali: Yeah, you just slice it, (cross) eat it every day with your toast.
Janine: (cross) Get that banana nice cream that everyone on the internet liked a couple years ago.
Jack: I think
Ali: Oh true, that was a thing
Jack: I think you are all very confident about your ability to enjoy a large amount of bananas in a short amount of time.
Ali: (overlapping) Turn it into ice cream!
Keith: (overlapping) How many bananas are in a crate of bananas? I guess that's the thing.
Jack: Mm?
Keith: Did you get like thirty bananas? Or how many bananas was this?
Jack: I honestly don't remember Keith, but it was a lot.
(laughter)
Keith: Why didn't they get you an assortment of fruits?
Jack: Uh... I think the bananas were like...
Keith: From their personal garden?
Jack: No I think it was like--
Ali: Were they ill-gotten?
(Keith cackles)
Jack: No I don't think they were ill-gotten, but I (laughing)
Keith: (gleefully) Were these ill-gotten bananas?
Austin: Mmh.
Jack: No I think they were like, um... I think that they had too many bananas (laughs)
(Ali giggles)
Dre: (simultaneously??)
Keith: (simultaneously) Ill-gotten!
Art: (simultaneously) Someone gave them two crates of bananas (laughter)
Janine: Someone was having an even worse banana day. 
(laughter slowly dies down)
Keith: Nothing's worse than a re-gifted banana.
(Ali giggles)
Art: That was on the posters of my abstinence-only health class.
(shocked laughter)
Sylvia: Jee-sus!
Austin: (laughing) Oh, my god.
(Keith cackling)
Ali: (laughing) Niiice!
(laughter)
Sylvia: (laughing) Oohoho! Fuck!
(Keith's laughter dies down)
Janine: Really hope everyone's recording.
(various "mmhm"'s and "oh yeah"'s)
Austin: Of course.
Janine: Excellent.
Austin: (clears throat) Pheof. Ohhh. Should we wait for this-- this ricotta, or whatever?
(cackles in bg)
Ali: You dont have to, I'm just (laughing, Sylvia cackles)
Keith: Have you-- Have you guys ever heard of a sporkie? That's my favorite pizza. It's a ricotta based pizza.
Sylvia: (disbelieving) Mm?
Austin: (simultaneously) A "sporkie"?
Keith: (simultaneously) It is a big--
Janine: (simultaneously, disgusted) I can't, I can't do this, ugh.
Keith: A sporkie?
Austin: What is it?
Keith: It's called a sporkie.
Janine: (still disgusted) I-- Ricotta, don't, no.
Ali: Oh, Janine.
Austin: Wh- Ho-- How do you spell it?
Janine: Noo!
Keith: S-P-O-R-K-I-E. Sporkie.
Sylvia: That's not a real thing.
Ali: What is it.
Keith: It is a usually thin crust,
Austin: Oh, I don't like this.
Keith: Neapolitan sauce, ricotta cheese, and sausage pizza. (Janine makes a disgusted sound) It's very good. 
Ali: Is that what they call that? 'Cause I feel like I've seen it.
Keith: That's what I fuckin' call that shit.
Sylvia: "Neapolitan sauce"? 
Keith: Yeah, that's the sauce that comes on a Margharita pizza, it's made with a different kind of tomato. It's more min-- It's a sweeter tomato, but there's a lot less going on in the sauce. So it's a very (cross) like, true tomato sauce,
Austin: (cross, forlornly) I want pizza.
Jack: (cross) Hey Keith?
Keith: (cont) yeah.
Jack: Why's it called a sporkie?
(Art laughs)
Keith: I dunno, ask Bertucci's.
Jack: (chuckling) S-sorry?
Janine: Or the Bertucci's founder, Sporkie Sporker. 
(laughter)
Jack: Oh-ho, right.
Austin: Oh, of course.
Keith: Well, I think-- (cross) It's-- it's got
Janine: (cross) Or Sporkie Bertucci, I guess. (laughing, Keith cackles) Which is worse?
Keith: (laughing) Sporkie--!
Art: (cross) Or Bertucci Sporkie.
Keith: (cross) It has sausage, which is pork. So I think-- pork in the center is important.
Austin: Oooh.
Keith: It's 'pork', and then, I dunno what the 's' is, or the... I dunno. (cross) 'Sausage pork'?
Austin: (cross) It's like (?? 42:00 )
Keith: (cont) 'Sporkie'? Sausage pork. (cross) Sporkie.
Jack: (cross) Well, but sausages are kind of... sort of... pork. Generally.
Janine: If anyone wants to call back to Art's health class joke, this is the time.
(laughter)
Austin: Woof.
Ali: Thanks for giving us the window.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Ali: It's (laughing)
Austin: (cross) I wanna know about this sporkie!
Art: (cross) No one says 'sausage pork' though. Is the, is the real thing (chuckling).
Keith: Um, this might be like, a regional pizza if no one's ever heard of it. (cross) But it's really good!
Dre: (cross) I've never heard of it.
Ali: (cross) Yeah.
Keith: (cont) 'S got a nice thick chunky sauce, (slight mumbles of discomfort in bg) nice thin crust,
Ali: ("No") Mm-mm.
Keith: ricotta, sausage. (like a man who has realized he's pitching a failing product) Please try it.
Art: (simultaneously) The Bertucci's-- website has four pages of...
Austin: (simultaneously) I've typed in, "sporkie pizza name why"
(Ali and Sylvia giggling)
Ali: You should just get like, a white slice and then have a cup for dipping.
Janine: Here's my thing,
Austin: (shocked and discomforted) No!
Janine: (cont) I don't trust any cheese that can be both a savory and a sweet.
Jack: (simultaneously) A-greed.
Ali: (simultaneously) Okay, but it does do that. (cross) It does do that. And it's both--
Keith: (cross) It does do that. Now,
Janine: (cross) See, that's what I mean, is I don't-- I don't trust it and I don't care for it. Like, (Ali guffaws) you need to specialize.
Keith: Janine is just here to dunk on ricotta, and I'm not for that.
(Dre laughs)
Ali: Yeah, no.
Janine: (simultaneously) Also, texture
Sylvia: (simultaneously) Ricotta needs to pick a side.
Janine: (cont) The texture and look of it is icky! Why would (cross) you make a thing and then it's just like, 
Ali: (cross) No. noooo.
Austin: (cross) What just (laughs) What did ricotta d--
Janine: (cross) why don't we make look like, fucking chunky shit? Like 
(Dre cackles)
Ali: It's not chunky!! What?
Art: (cross) Yeah, you're getting bad ricotta.
Keith: (cross) It's creamy! it's like goat cheese.
Ali: (cross) What??
Janine: (cross) It's like-- It's not chunky, but it's like, it's like
Ali: Also, from the (cross) land of cheese curds, please
Keith: (cross) It's gloppy(??).
Janine: (cross) granular looking, I just, eugh.
Ali: It's not (cross) grainy looking. You're just not-- You have to mix it with egg. It's fine.
Keith: (cross) There's a granularity-- I will give Janine the granularity.
Sylvia: It's like powdery.
(pause)
Ali: No, what??
Sylvia: Isn't it?
Austin: (simultaneously) It what??
Janine: (simultaneously): What?? What the fu--??
(Ali giggling)
Sylvia: (cont) I'm looking at pictures of it and it looks powdery.
Austin: (cackling) You're thinking of parmesan, Sylvia[2].
Sylvia: (insistently) No, I'm looking ricotta-- This looks powdery!
(Ali wheezes)
Art: What is happening-- (cross) in Canadian cheese--
Keith: (cross) B- But--
(Ali giggling)
Sylvia: Oooh, okay, (cross) oh no, okay.
Janine: (cross, loudly) Ricotta is like if someone left their cottage cheese on the window for a day or two.
Ali: No, you have (cross) to cook with it.
Sylvia: (cross) I zoomed in on the picture and this is clumpier than I thought.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Keith: It's crea-- Yes, it's texture, 
Sylvia: Yeaah.
Keith: (cont) but it's creamy. It's like goat cheese, (cross) texture wise.
Ali: (cross) It's extremely creamy, yeah.
(Janine making various disgusted noises)
Keith: It's extremely creamy. It is-- luxur-- It is a (drawling) luxurious cheese.
(Ali chuckling)
Sylvia: Like-- This is the picture I saw of it, and it looks like, powdery on the top, so I was like, (cross) Oh, it's like a, a powdery thing.
Jack: (cross) Oh, no.
Keith: Yeah, nonono. That's much...
Art: [inaudible]
Austin: (chuckling) That is also-- That whole picture is also from Art's health class, (light laughter) and it's terrible.
Ali: Oh.
Janine: God.
Jack: I'm gonna take off my damn headphones.
(Austin cackles, laughter)
Jack: (tiredly) Oh, god. Is this everybody? Are we-- Is it-- I mean,
Austin: Yeah, we're here. Except for the pizza guy. (Dre laughs) Except for Tom from, (cross) Sporkie's.
Ali: (cross) I've told you! This is my third time telling you. (laughter) The episode (cross) can start, by the way.
Jack: (cross) But we don't want to start, because we're making such good content.
(Ali laughs)
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Apparently Joe V. is gonna be here in (cross) about two minutes. (giggling)
Austin: (cross, simultaneously) Ayyy! Joe V.! Get Joe V. on the microphone.
Art: (simultaneously) Ayyy, Joe V.!
Sylvia: Bon Jovi?
Keith: I don't know about you, but I-- (laughs)
(laughter)
Austin: Bon Jovi!
Keith: I'm willing to wait two more minutes for the ri-content.
Jack: For, for JBJ? To come?
(various mm-hms)
Jack: Yeah, I'm willing to wait two more minutes for Jon Bon Jovi just like in the song.
Keith: (simultaneously) That's his favorite song, "Just Wait Two More Minutes For Me".
Janine: (simultaneously) That's a song?
Ali: (simultaneously) Janine-- Janine, you have to do things with ricotta. You have to like, apply heat, or mix it with another thing.
Janine: Look, I-- My mom used to make lasagna with ricotta in it, and the thing that had to happen, because I was the only person who would eat leftover lasagna, was she had to start making half lasagna without ricotta, because if there was ricotta in it, I was like, "Fuck you, I'm not eating that leftover,"
Ali: (hissing) what
Janine: (cont) and then it would just go bad, (cross) because ricotta's disgusting!
Jack: (cross) So this is like a--
Ali: What was even in it? Yo, what?
Janine: (incensed) It's like a layer of cheesy pillow foam in the middle of (cross) a delicious casserole dish!!
Ali: (cross) oh my god. You have to like mix-- (mumbling) I, no.
Art: So Janine, you're instead eating, like a dry (cross) lasagna? Like--
Keith: A cheeseless-- (cross) It's just layered pasta and sauce?
(Jack says something about Bechamel sauce)
Janine: (cross) No! You just put-- You just do an extra layer of like, sauce and meat with maybe some like, parmesan in there, or mozzarella. It's still perfectly fine, it's just-- It's a more consistent experience, if anything.
Ali: Outrageous. No.
(Dre giggles)
Janine: 'Cause the top layer is the best layer of lasagna, so if you get a top layer in the middle too, you're fucking golden. Like that's ideal.
(rustling sounds)
Jack: Oh, is Joe V. here? Yep, Joe V. I think has just arrived.
Sylvia: You guys... You guys know that scene in Ferris Bueller's Day Off where Cameron's just staring at that painting? That's me and this picture of ricotta cheese I posted.
(laughter)
Keith: Just zooms in on the (cross) granularity till you see the comfort.
Jack: (cross) Ah, you trapped yourself.
Sylvia: Yeah, I just, like-- I'm in its magnetic pull or something.
(someone slurps)
Jack: Aah, I can understand Janine's ricotta hatred to an extent if it framed as like-- Like food you've never liked as a child? 'Cause there's definitely foods that I didn't like as a child that as an adult I would reasonably eat, but I-- I can't. I do not enjoy them.
Janine: I-- The thing is, like, I can't even... if you asked me to describe the taste of ricotta I would not have any words for you, because I don't think I ever-- I think it's one of those foods where I never even got to the point of registering taste because I found the texture and the look of it so incredibly revolting.
(sounds of Ali returning)
Jack: Mm. Mmhm. That's fair. I can't eat broc-- (cross) I mean, no, (mumbling) I don't love broccoli.
Keith: (cross, clicks tongue) I don't know, I think that's unfair.
(Janine chuckles, someone sighs)
Ali: I just-- I just h--
Janine: But like, I also don't like cottage cheese for the same reason. It's like--
Jack: (low) what is... cottage?
Janine: (cont) I'm not a big cheese curd person either. Like, I prefer a poutine with the shredded cheese on top. In general.
Jack: Huh. (cross) Oh, cottage cheese looks--
(crinkling noises)
Janine: (cross) Which some people say is blasphemy, but.
Ali: Um, I just had a weirdly intimate with Joe V., by the way. (laughing)
Sylvia: WoOow!
Janine: Yeah?
Austin: Y-yeah? 
Ali: (giggling) He like-- (cross) It wasn't in--
Austin: A good intimate, or...?
Ali: No. It-- Intimate is probably strong but-- There was a closeness. So I have a door--
(laughter erupts)
Sylvia: Yeah?
Ali: I have a door and a screen door, and like, the door's a little raised from like, where the porch is, so I opened my door, and he had already opened the screen door, and like, had his foot-- up on the thing? Like as if he was stepping in but didn't? So I opened my door, and-- instead of my door, there was a man, and I was like, "Oh, hi." (light chuckling) And he gave me my pizza and now I'm good. (rustling) So. (cross) Don't do that.
Austin: (cross) Wait, you did get pizza.
Ali: I didn't. No. But-- from the pizza place. (mic rumbles)
Art: Ali's changing her story. 
(Ali laughs)
Janine: I once had a pizza man like, walk into the front of my house.
Dre: Aaah!
Ali: No. Nope.
Janine: Um, yeah. (cross) Because it was--
Austin: (cross) No, that's-- no.
Janine: (cont) It was like-- I mean, it was winter, and it was cold out, and like, I get it? But he definitely just like, walked into my foyer and was like, "Here's your stuff," and I was like, "Woah, okay."
(Ali laughs)
Keith: I feel like as a former pizza delivery person, the etiquette is to have the arms cross the threshold of the doorway, but no other part.
Janine: Yeaaah.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: You hand the pizza in through-- like, this is the only-- There's a barrier here that only my arms can get into.
Jack: Oh, vampires!
Keith: Yeah, yeahyeahyeah.
(Ali and Janine laugh)
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Uh-huh.
Jack: So we've got vampires.
Keith: Yeayeayeah. And then once it-- (cross) Once I glamour them I block it.
Sylvia: (cross) Okay, so-- MonsterHearts character: vampire pizza delivery driver.
Austin: (simultaneously) Oh that's so good.
Jack: (simultaneously) That's so good!
Ali: Oh wow.
Jack: Oh, that's very good.
Austin: Woow.
Janine: The garlic, though, that's gonna be rough.
(Ali giggles briefly)
Jack: Oh, also true.
Dre: Why do you think they keep making, like--
Keith: I mean if you have--
Dre: (cont) thicker and thicker delivery bags?
Austin: Mm-hm.
Janine: Oooh.
Keith: (cross) And if you're a vampire--
Ali: (cross) Weren't they delivering like empanadas.
Sylvia: (cross, laughing) It sounded like you were gonna say "thicker and thicker delivery boys"
(hysterical laughter)
Sylvia: I was really confused!
Ali: My dream, yes. I'm gonna get a fork, hold on.
Keith: If you're a vampire, and your goal is to do vampire shit while on food deliveries, like, you can get away with not bringing the garlic bread.
Jack: Oh, I bet that Austin Vasily/Chance the Rapper horror movie that's coming is gonna be about vampire. 'Cause in that Chance--
Austin: Wait, what is this?
Jack: Austin Vasily, Chance the Rapper's video director is making a--
Austin: Uh-huh.
Jack: (cont) a horror comedy starring Chance the Rapper? I think it's called, like, "Delivery Boy"? Chance is basically a pizza delivery guy who is in a supernatural-- There's also supernatural stuff. It looks cool as hell.
Austin: It's called "Slice".
Jack: "Slice"?
Austin: And I think he's a werewolf.
Sylvia: Yeah. (cross) Oh, yeah, I remember this.
Jack: (cross) You think Chance is the werewolf?
Austin: Looks like Chance is a were-- Well, it looks like it's a werewolf, not a-- Not a vampire, is my point.
Keith: Now, this is (cross) a horror comedy,
Jack: (cross) Oh, I hadn't seen this new art. This looks good as hell.
Keith: This is a horror comedy starring Chance the Rapper as a werewolf, do you think this is the true successor to Teen Wolf after the Teen Wolf TV show was not the true successor to Teen Wolf.
Austin: Wait, what's th--
Sylvia: The description for this movie sounds fucking incredible.
Austin: Can you read the description (cross) and then we'll get to...?
Sylvia: (cross) "When a pizza delivery driver is murdered on the job, the city searches for someone to blame. Ghosts? Drug dealers? (Ali giggles) A disgraced werewolf?" (Janine laughs) And that's it!
Austin: (chuckles) That's it!
Sylvia: That's the whole description!
Austin: Good. Good.
Art: Did you say "disgraced werewolf"?
Sylvia: Yes.
Austin: Yeah. yeah.
Art: On the outs with-- other were-- who..?
Jack: Iii don't know!
Austin: I think with the city-- I think the city has maybe turned its back on the werewolf. You know.
Ali: You gotta watch to find out.
Austin: (cross) Yeah, exactly.
Janine: (cross) I think the werewolf used to have a peerage, um (laughter) but their family lost all the money.
Austin: (intrigued) Oh, okay.
Art: Have you seen that video of Marcia Brady saying "werewolf"?
(pause)
Ali: (laughing) No??
Sylvia: (curious) No, I haven't, Art.
Janine: (barely containing laughter) Why would we have??
(giggling in background)
Art: I think it made the internet rounds recently.  (cross) Whatever you think--
Keith: (cross, laughing) Is it-- Is it a long video?
Art: Whatever you think (cross) she says, 
Austin: (cross) I gotchu, I got it.
Art: (cont) it's worse.
Austin: I gotcha.
Janine: Unless it's like-- mm.
Keith: Was there a-- Teen Wolf question that I needed to answer?
(pause where Austin watches the clip)
Sylvia: I don't remember.
(Austin guffaws)
Jack: Lemme-- Let's hear this real quick. Let's see what's going on here.
(someone chortles)
(pause - more watching)
(Keith laughs)
Janine: That's like the past tense of werewolf. Warwolf.
Art: War-whuuf.
Austin: (laughing) She doesn't even--! (laughing)
Ali: She had to be talking about a different thing.
Austin: (laughing hysterically) She says were-woofs!
Keith: She said wormwood.
Jack: (laughing) Worwoof...
Austin: (chuckling) Wor-- she says wor-wooves. (pause) (Austin guffaws again) Okay. (Janine chuckles) No one told her to do it again!
Keith: (cross) Wormwood!
Ali: (cross) Yeah, they really couldn't do a different take on that one?
Keith: I mean-- (cross) TV was bad, so they could just do whatever.
Dre: (cross) Alice had the best take yet, so they couldn't go back and get rid of it.
(Austin laughs and sighs)
Jack: I do like that the last frame of the video definitely captures her-- in her eyes the look of someone who believes that they have made a good f-- (laughs)
Keith: I-- I mean--
Jack: 't's like a tiny frozen moment of, "I-- Did I-- How did I say that?"
Austin: "Did I...? Did I do...?"
Keith: We're talking about a show... We're talking about a show where they wrote the joke, "Vampires are a pain in my neck," and then wrote the line, "That's a joke!"(laughter)
Jack: (sighing) Ah.
Austin: Oh... Okay.
Janine: Also, a show where like, a middle class family with a lot of kids and not a lot of adult structure, necessarily, has a housekeeper. 
(pause)
Austin: A live-in housecleaner. Right?
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Who's like--
Dre: (cross) Oh, wait,
Austin: (cross) He was an-- architect
Janine: (cross) Who's also, like, an older white woman.
Austin: I think she's-- (cross) Yeah, Alice. Doesn't he--
Dre: (cross) I don't-- really know... 
Janine: (cross)  Like, she would be very expensive.
Dre: I know she's always around, but is she ever, like-- canonically established as being a live-in housekeeper?
Austin: I-- maybe not.
Janine: I don't-- She's like (cross) always fuckin' there,
Keith: (cross) I always assumed she was live-in.
Austin: (cross) Yeah, she lives-- she lives in the Brady house.
Janine: It might be sadder if she's not a live-in housekeeper (Austin chuckles, Ali giggles) 'cause it just means she spends all of her time there and then like, goes home to sleep for two hours (cross) and then comes back.
Dre: (cross) Oh, she does live there, according to…
Austin: (cross) Yeah. She lives there. I mean--
Keith: (cross) Now, she was in-- She came with Greg Brady when-- when the Bradys were married, do you think that she owes Greg Brad-- Is it Greg Brady? Is that the father? Who's the father?
Austin: No, Greg's the-- (cross) lil boy, he's--
Keith: (cross) Greg's the si-- yeah,
Janine: Are you asking if they have a blood pact,  (cross) because the answer's probably yes.
Keith: (cross) I was gonna say life debt, but yes.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: I was gonna say haunting. (Ali laughs, cross) And she's not a human. She's a poltergeist.
Janine: (cross) Oh, this is-- I bet this is--
Austin: (cross) Oh, she's a ghost.
Janine: (cont) This is like Black Butler. She's a demon.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Okay. I was gonna go, it's like KOTOR? (cross) It's like a wookie life debt.
Keith: (cross) Yeah, the wookie life debt.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, the woo-wolf life debt.
(laughter)
Austin: Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast in which one side of the spectrum is Black Butler, the other side is KOTOR, (laughter) and we just try to find the perfect middle ground, week to week. Okay. We should time.is.
Jack (overlapping) Yeah, we should time.is.
Ali: (overlapping) It's me, always. (cross) Is the middle ground.
Austin: (cross) It is. Uh-huh. (someone clears throat) Uh, top of the minute?
Janine: Yeah.
Jack: (panicked) Uh, wait I don't have it open! (cross) How far-- How long have I got?!
Austin: (cross) Oh-kay.
Art: You have (cross) plenty of time.
Keith: (cross) Five seconds.
Jack: Okay I'm good. 
(Janine chuckles)
(claps - a broad distribution but mostly together)
Janine: I was late.
(giggling)
Keith: That--  (overlapping) That was a rough one. That was bad.
Ali: (giggling, overlapping) Every single-- 
Sylvia: (overlapping) There's like twenty of us, it's fine.
Austin: (overlapping, gleeful) Eight-- Eight distinct claps!
(Dre laughing)
Keith: Yeah, yeah. 
Austin: (overlapping) Maybe nine!
Keith: (overlapping) It sounded like someone, like, clapping together two Jacob's ladders.
(laughter)
Austin: Alright. Uh, twenty... twenty-five. Twenty-five.
Ali: Twenty-five.
(claps - a little tighter with two trailing claps)
Austin: That was (cross) much better.
Keith: (cross) That was tighter. That was tighter, yeah.
Jack: That one sounded really good!
Austin: That one-- That one worked. It was still like a little eh, but like, really fucking good comparatively.
Ali: Yeah, yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: (overlapping) It's what we can hope for.
Art: (overlapping) My clap didn't reach the bottom of my-- thing.
(pause)
Austin: What?
Jack: (overlapping) That happens to me sometimes.
Art: (overlapping) Like a very-- high-end clap. 
Austin: (sighs) Oh.
Art: No bass in my clap.
(Ali laughs)
Keith: You gotta cup your palms a little bit.
Art: I think I just kinda missed.
Keith: Oh.
Sylvia: You accidentally hit a triangle instead of clapping, is that what it was? 
(laughter)
Austin: Close enough. Alright.
Art: Wait, have y'all been using clap literally this whole time?
(light chuckling)
Sylvia: This is the health class thing again, huh?
Austin: Yeah-- eughhh.
Dre: (cross) Wokka wokka.
Art: (cross, quiet) I got the clap!
(Ali groans)
Janine: (overlapping) Art's really quiet again.
Austin: (overlapping) Art, you are-- You are very far away.
(Sylvia laughs)
Art: Well, maybe I just didn't want my weird STD joke to get into the mic.
(Dre and Ali laugh)
Austin: Yeah, yeah.
(Janine laughs, Austin sighs)
Keith: For a third time.
Art: If it's unusable it can't be on the thing.
Ali: You don't know that.
Austin: We'll fix it. (Ali laughs) Alright, I'm gonna do-- I'm gonna do an intro.
Keith: (overlapping) Oh, I like these sheets.
Ali: (overlapping) Art, can you do a pick-up on that real quick?
(Art and Jack laugh)
Jack: Do it in character.
Art: Just hire an impersonator.
(Austin and Ali giggle)
Austin: Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast focused on critical worldbuilding, smart characterization, and fun interaction between good friends. I am your host, Austin Walker.
[interstitial synth music]
[55:11 - segment 10]
Keith: Um, my thought is that (away from mic) I think my fuckin' cat took a dump somewhere.
(laughter)
Austin: Oh my... Bad thought, honestly.
Keith: (laughing) Hold on one sec, lemme get back.
Austin: TBH.
Dre: (overlapping) Ah, minus one status with Keith's cat.
Keith: (overlapping, distantly to his cat) Are you in the hallway?? Whose-- Don't run away from me, asshole.
(pause)
Ali: (chuckling) I, um.
Art: Wait, aren't you-- mm. (quieter) It says you will tell us the two factions.
Austin: Oh, I could do that. I just think it's not as inter-- Like, yes, I could just-- I could just do that, and fuck you over, y'know? But.
Ali: What's the th-- sorry, I was distracted by [???] [55:42] for a second, and (laughing)
Austin: (unimpressed) Uh-huh.
Ali: (cont) then I was thinking about--
Austin: Oh, yeah? Funny. Who could've guessed.
Ali: (laughing) Um.
[interstitial synth music]
[55:49 - segment 11]
Austin: Anyway. There that is. Uh... We need. Art, do you need to take a five minute break?
Art: Yeah, I think so. 
Austin: Take a five minute break, and then we'll do favorite contact, and then we'll do one level up, and then we'll be good.
Jack: Sooounds good.
Austin: Cool. I'm gonna eat this lemon loaf thing.
Keith: I think the cat just farted real bad.
(laughter)
Keith: 'Cause I don't see-- 'Cause like, so what happens is that she'll go to use the litter box, and won't get all the way in and will sometimes just at the door of the box, like (Austin aws) out of the outside, and I thought that's what happened, 'cause the litter box is right outside my door, to my office. But there's nothing over there, and the hallway doesn't smell that bad? (whispering) So I think this cat shot out a fuckin' rancid fart. It's bad, so bad.
Austin: Awhh, that sounds bad to me.
Keith: Yeah, just smells like there's shit in this room. (Ali wheezes) This has happened before. And I think that that's-- what it ended up being.
Austin: Euh.
Sylvia: It's just pets, man. (cross) It's just how it is.
Ali: (cross) No, you d--
Keith: (cross) I have some tea here, I'm just making some more tea so that my office smells like tea instead of like, shit.
Sylvia: Cat shit.
Keith: Cat shit. Which smells a lot like shit.
Austin: yeah. (Ali giggles) Just regular shit.
Ali: Oh, my god, Jess just sent me a DM that was like, "I just deleted the tweet you just faved, so now you have to (snorts) fave it again," and I am in love with her.
(light laughter)
Sylvia: Fuck. Yeah, that's good. That's real good.
Keith: What tweet is that?
Ali: She was like, "It had a typo." (laughs) I think it's this one about Animal Crossing.
Sylvia: I mean, that's fuckin', I get it. That's like, (cross) big mood.
Ali: (cross) Yeah.
Austin: (cross) Mm-hm!
(laughter, something falls on a desk)
Janine: Jesus.
Sylvia: (sighs) God, speaking of, I had this fucking, like, nightmare day, where... So I've been playing my-- like, Picross on my DS to destress, 'cause it's the most stressful time of the fucking year for me right now? And like, I went to open it up, and my SD card, (Ali gasps) just wasn't being read? (pause) And I put it in my... So I like-- I did this whole check disc thing on my computer, and I tried-- turning off my 3DS for a few hours and then turning back on and stuff. And it just--nothing was working. Come back to it the day fucking after, and it just works like normal, and I was like--
Ali: Ewww.
Sylvia: (cont) I was spending this entire time thinking, like, "Well fuck, I've gotta get a new DS or a new--" Like, I either lost like, fucking, I've had this since the thing came out, so like 6 years of video games (chuckling)
Ali: Oh, god.
Sylvia: And like shit, or... or like... Ugh, it was just a nightmare. And now--
Ali: That sounds so bad.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: And the fact that it just works, like that's great, but also. (cross) Is terrifying.
Sylvia: (cross) It's great, but it's also like, I'm gonna sue Nintendo for emotional distress.
Ali: Yeah. Mm-hm. 
(Janine chuckles)
Sylvia: 'Cause I almost lost my Animal Crossing stuff and that’s not cool.
Keith: They can afford it.
Ali: Yeah. (inhales, laughs) You should also replace that as soon as possible (cross) 'cause it's about to crash.
Sylvia: (cross) I'm going to, probably. I'm probably gonna pick up, like, a 2DS at some point. But like.
Ali: Yeah, those are actually really nice.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Ali: My brother got the Pokemon one, and-- They're a little weird, 'cause like-- They feel like a toy? Like, um,
Sylvia: Yeah...
Ali: When like, tech bugs talk about things feeling (cross) cheap 
Sylvia: (cross) Oop. Headphone fell out, hold on.
Ali: (cont) I'm always like, "You're an asshole." But that kind of does? But, like, in a way that's appealing, actually, it's like, kinda neat. Um.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: (overlapping) It also is--
Sylvia: (overlapping) It's really like--
Ali: (overlapping) And the screen were just as gorgeous.
Sylvia: I think the reason why-- I'll probably wait and get a 2DS XL instead, just because I like being able to close it over? (cross) To protect the screen, 'cause I--
Ali: (cross) Yeah.
Keith: (cross) Yeah, the new ones have the close now.
Sylvia: (cont, overlapping)  I bring this on my commute, right. Yeah.
Ali: Yeah. That's what I mean,
Keith: They figured out how to make a DS close! What!
Sylvia: Finally.
Keith: Finally. (Ali snorts, Keith laughs) I always thought (cross) that was the most bizzare--
Ali: (cross) Yeah, my...
Keith: (cont) 'Cause I worked at GameStop when those started selling, and I always thought it was the most bizzare thing. I was like, you know how to put a hinge on this thing. (Sylvia laughs) Like, you made it less complex. It should be easier to make it fold.
Ali: Yeah, the (stutters) the thing with the DS is that-- is the hinge is the first thing that goes if a child owns it?
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: Just, in terms of seeing (cross) what happens to them.
Sylvia: (cross) Yeah...
Keith: (cross) That's true, but it also, like-- destroys the portability of it for me. Like, I can't fit that in my pocket. 
Ali: Yeah, but, your (cross) mom's not takin' it in, (???) [1:00:03]
Janine: (cross) It's meant to fit in a backpack, thought.
Ali: Yeah, a backpack, or your mom's gonna carry it for you.
Keith: I... I don't have a backpack, Janine! (laughs) I don't go to school!
Janine: That's-- (laughs) Exactly, it's not for you.
Ali: (laughs) yeah.
Keith: Right, well, but that's why I don't have one, 'cause it's not for me.
Ali: (inhales) I was weirdly glad when they came out, 'cause I remember when I was selling...
Janine: (low) what the fuck do you want
Ali: (cont) 3DSes to parents, and I was like, "Uhhhh, you know, technically doctors say that the screens are unsafe, but you can just turn it off. It's fine. And also not everyone agrees with that." And they would be like, "...I'll talk to you later." (Ali and Janine laugh) (cross) "No, you should--! Your kid will actually enjoy this."
Janine: (cross) "Sorry, the screens are unsafe, huh? Okay, well, I guess I'm going to get them a fucking shaving kit."
Keith: Oh, that's so-- That's so funny, I had a c-- I never brought that up when parents were buying 3DSes at GameStop, but I had a coworker (cross) that did?
Austin: (cross) Did you say a shaving kit?
Janine: Yeah. I was trying to think of like-- (laughs)
Austin: For your kid?? (Janine laughs) (cross) You're like, "Ah, I can’t decide what to get Jenny for Christmas!”
Janine: (cross) I was trying to think of a really shitty gift that someone would give, just like, (cross) "Oh, I had this one cool idea,"
Austin: (cross) A 3DS or a shaving kit.
Janine: (cont) but I guess I'll just--
Austin: (overlapping under Keith) Also--
Keith: Yo, Austin, you're super quiet right now.
Janine: You're very quiet.
Austin: The thing that they're u-- uuargh, I hate this fuckin' thing! (someone laugh/coughs) The thing that they're unsafe for is, (crunchy noises, gets much louder) is, uh-- kids under twelve, right? Isn't that the whole thing?
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Kids under seven?
Janine: Mmyeah.
Austin: Okay, well, you're not gonna get your six-year-old a shaving kit! 
(laughter)
Keith: To be fair, when I was a kid, I got a plastic shaving kit to pretend to shave.
Austin: Like a, like a test. Like a--
Janine: Yeah, I--
Ali: A shaving kit is definitely one of those things that's like, in a-- On an endcap in CVS closest to the door (cross) around holiday season. So, yeah.
Austin: (cross) Uh-huh. True, yes.
Janine: Yes. I definitely got, like a weird.. It was like some kind of weird branded gift set that had that weird, sort of sickly sweet candy sort of smell? And it was definitely like, okay, here's like, a shampoo, and a bubble bath. And there was definitely just like a foam-- Like it couldn't have been-- Realistically, 'cause that's for children, so why would it be a shaving foam, but it was just like a foam. LIke-- It was just in there, I don't-- Maybe it was for tweens? I dunno.
Ali: Was it like a styling mousse?
Janine: Maybe? But again, how many, like, six-year-olds (Ali laughs) are using styling mousse?
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: Mm.
Keith: Uh, present.
Dre: All of them.
Keith: I wasn't actually. Uh-- well, my mom had mousse, and (cross) I thought it was fun to play with.
Sylvia: (cross) Well--- When I was, like five, six, I actually had like, this gel with blue dye in it that I would put, like just on the front of my hair, and stick it up. (Janine laughs) And I went to kindergarten with a shiny silver vest and I fuckin' looked great. It was awesome.
(pause)
Keith: My kindergarten classroom had a little sandbox inside of it. Inside the classroom there was a sandbox.
Sylvia: Seems like a bad idea.
Keith: Ind-- It never se-- I don't remember it ever being a problem, but it is wild to think of the-- Like, there used to be a sandbox in a classroom.
Janine: Does anyone here remember hair mascara?
(Sylvia makes a confused closed mouth sound)
Dre: Uh. No.
Keith: Noo.
Ali: (overlapping) 'Scuse me?
Austin: (overlapping) I closed my eyes. I just closed my whole eyes.
Janine: Hair mascara? It was like-- (laughs) It was like-- It was very much just like, for people who couldn't get away with dyeing their hair for various reasons, usually because they were like eleven, 
Sylvia: Oooh.
Janine: (cont) but it was like, colored gel, but it was in a mascara tube and you would brush a streak on your hair, but it was like, one, clumpy, and gross, (overlapping) and you'd get like, a single gross streak.
Keith: (overlapping) Oh--I've seen that for Halloween. I--
Ali: (overlapping) Oh, I had one of those.
Sylvia: (overlapping) I feel like one of my sisters owned those.
Janine: Yeah. It used to be like, a thing. Just like, in general, 
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: just like, here's some stuff you can use I guess.
Keith: So I never-- I've never liked Halloween, and I realized this pretty recently that the reason that I was a vampire every single year that I ever dressed up for Halloween, despite not really caring about vampires, is because I was just like, "Well, I decided what my costume is going to be, now let me go ahead and collect my candy." (Austin hums in amusement) And uh, I think a few years I used like, a white comb to dye in my hair temporarily white for being a vampire. (Ali giggles in bg) And so maybe that's what that is.
Janine: I think you can just use like, talcum powder for that.
Keith: Mmm. There was sprays. There was like-- That was, it was
Janine: Oh yeah. I remember the sprays.
Keith: There was sprays-- I tried different things for different years.
Ali: I feel like Kool-aid was the big temporary hair dye (cross, laughing) thing that I saw.
Sylvia:  (cross) YEAAAHHhhh. I remember that.
Janine: Yeah....
Dre: What?
Sylvia: I never did that, but I had friends who did.
Keith: (overlapping) You could dye your hair with Kool-aid?
Janine: (overlapping) It doesn't do shit if you have dark hair, really.
Ali: I think I tried it once for a Spice Girls themed party.
(light chuckling)
Jack: See, no-- Like--
Sylvia: That seems like the right time to try it.
Ali: Yeah.
Jack: Is it not horribly sticky?
Ali: (pause, clicks tongue) No?? (laughing) Not that I remember. I think like the-- I dunno. (cross) It might be like
Janine: (cross) I mean, Kool-aid, you add the sugar separately, normally. And you-- The package isn't... (cross) It isn't just like, you mix the package with water,
Jack: (cross) I've never had Kool-aid in my-- in my life.
Janine: (cont) You have to add like, two cups of sugar or some shit, to that.
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Art: Yeah, (overlapping) Kool-aid's gross.
Dre: (overlapping) Oh, no.
Janine: (overlapping) So, there's no... It wouldn't necessarily be sticky on its own, it would just be-- it's just like...
Dre: Kool-aid's great, what?
Ali: Yeah. (cross) You can mix it with like--
Keith: (cross) I've just had straight Kool-aid, I dip a lollipop in there, homeaid Lik-m-aids.
(Ali laughs)
Janine: Euuh.
Art: Ouuh.
Ali: (laughing) I believe Art is back.
Janine: Yuck.
Ali: We can move on. Immediately.
Austin: Hi Art.
Art: (overlapping) Too sweet, Kool-aid is too sweet.
Dre: (overlapping) Can't stand for this Kool-aid, fuckin', slander.
Austin: Art, you're quiet again, I think.
Art: (normal volume) What!
Austin: (simultaneously) No, you're good.
Keith: (simultaneously) No, no, you're good, you might just be far away.
Ali: Yeah he was just-- talking quietly.
Austin: It's so hard to know.
Ali: He didn't want to get a cease and desist notice from the WWE.
(pause)
Austin: (genuinely confused) What?
Ali: He said too sweet.
Austin: Oh. (cross) I see.
Art: (cross) Oooh.
(Ali wheeze)
Austin: Good. (overlapping) That's a good joke.
Sylvia: (overlapping) Nice.
Art: (overlapping) Wow.
Austin: Thank you. (cross) That's a VERY good joke.
Ali: (laughing, cross) Thank you for telling me it was a good joke.
Sylvia: Understood that one.
Ali: Thanks.
Austin: I just-- I didn't hear it the first time. If I had, I woulda laughed real hard.
Art: Ali's just gone-- just all the way over in New Japan now, (Ali guffaws) this is just--
Ali: One hundo.
Austin: How-- (sighs)
Sylvia: Oh I'm so happy.
Austin: How many Bullet Club shirts do you own at this point?
Ali: Oh my god, stop.
Austin: How often have you been to Hot Topic this week?
Ali: (cautious) Does the web store count? (wheezes)
(laughter)
Austin: Oh-ho-ho!
Art: Why, what's the answer?
Sylvia: I mean.
Janine: They have some okay stuff, sometimes.
Ali:  Yeah, I have like-- I'm constantly on hottopic.com.
Sylvia: The one-- The Hot Topic I went to to get my Los Ingobernables shirt was doing a two for one... Not a two for one, but buy one get one half off, and I was like, "Do I wanna really buy a Bullet Club shirt and betray myself like this?"
Austin: Don't-- don't.
Sylvia: I already have a bootleg one, so like--
Austin: Okay, well-- That's the real one (cross) as far as I'm concerned.
Sylvia: (cross) Yeah.
Art: I forget what I bought with my buy one... Did I get-- Oh I bought the, Jughead shirt, that's what I bought with the buy one get one half off.
Ali: Oh, (overlapping) wow, good choice.
Dre: (overlapping) Mm.
Sylvia: (overlapping) Oh yeah.
Austin: Good shirt.
Sylvia: (laughing) Yeah, you tweeted at me about that.
(laughter)
Keith: (overlapping) I've never...
Janine: (overlapping) Hot Topic has kind of just become, like, on-trend Spencer's.
Sylvia: Yeah, a lil bit.
Art: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah, and Spencers has gotten way worse. like wayy worse.
Sylvia: Yeah, there's--
Keith: I never--
Austin: Is Spencer's alt-right now?
(pause)
Art: What?
Dre: What?
Ali: (overlapping) No??
Keith: (overlapping) Spencer's was always alt-right.
Sylvia: (overlapping) I wouldn't be shocked.
Ali: I think they always were.
Austin: 'Cause I-- It always felt a little alt-right.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: yeaah.
Keith: I've always got that vibe from Spencer's.
Sylvia: I've-- Have I mentioned before that in the mall where I live, there's like, a Hot Topic and a Spencer's right across from each other?
Ali: That used to be-- Roosevelt Field was like that too.
Sylvia: It's fucking terrifying walking between them. 
(Ali laughs)
Dre: Oh yeah, there's a mall here like that too!
Keith: I-- I've never been in a Hot Topic, because first of all, when I was a kid I was a real fucking square, and then second of all, the one in the mall smelled weird? So I would actually cross to the other side of the mall to go past it, (Ali wheezes) 'cause it smelled so weird.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: (laughing) It smelled--
Ali: Oh, my god.
Janine: Sorry, there's-- sorry, hang on, 
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: I just, googled-- (Ali laughs) So I googled Spencer's Gifts, just like--
Austin: Uh-huh, I'm with you.
Jack: Aw, y--
Janine: No, but hang on hang on hang on. I've done this recently because I was doing it 'cause I remember I went there recently for something, I was like, surprised that they had, I don't even remember what the fuck it was. It might be like a craft set or some shit, I dunno. The important thing though is, it surfaced, Google surfaced, uh, the Google reviews for the Stone Road mall, the...
Sylvia: Oh-ho. Yeah, I know that one.
Janine: So, for the-- yeah. For the Stone Road Mall Spencer's, and.. there is like a picture of a child in a mountie hat and a red hoodie dabbing? (laughter, cross) It's either like a mountie hat, or like a weird (descending into laughter) Sherlock Holmes hat
Sylvia: (cross) Fuck yeah there is!
Janine: (cont) in the Spencer's. (cross) And it's just very funny.
Austin: (cross) Have you not-- Why have you
Dre: Yeah, where's this picture. Please?
Janine: So, that's. Alright, I-- I got it, hang on.
Sylvia: Um, I am on the Spencer's gifts website and they have a... sweater with a snowman on it, but the snowman's got a funny boner! (cross) That sticks out of the sweater.
Ali: (cross) Yeah.
Dre: Awwwwh yeah!
Ali: And right next to it is a humping gingerbread (cross) light up sweater.
Sylvia: (cross) It's really good to look at with my eyes, is the thing.
Austin: I have two things. One, do you think that the reason I thought Spencer's Gifts was related to the alt-right is Richard Spencer? Two, 
Art: (overlapping) Yes, I already asserted that.
Jack: (overlapping) Oh, that's it.
Austin: (cont) Two! Do you know where Spencer's Gifts is headquartered?
Sylvia: No.
Art: (simultaneously) Is it Richard Spencer's house?
Keith: (simultaneously) Richard Spencer's house.
(Keith cackles)
Austin: Egg Harbor-- (sighs) Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey, (cross)
Jack: Egg Harbor T--!
(Ali gasps)
Austin: (cont) just outside of Atlantic City-- Spencer's Gifts is just from Bluff City.
Dre: Yup. Uh-huh.
Ali: Fantastic. Write this down.
Janine: Huh.
[1:08:41]
Dre: There’s a lot going on in the background of this picture that you linked, Janine.
Jack:  Janine—
Janine: The sign saying dad hats, for instance? 
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: I think you also neglected…
Janine: Buy on get one half off dad hats?
Jack: You also neglected to mention…
Austin: Oh my god.
Jack: There’s a couple of things that you neglected to mention here.
Dre: Also their dad hats just say “dope as fuck” on them.
[Janine and Austin laugh]
Sylvia: Hell yeah they do.
Jack: One. There is another picture of the kid dabbing, but this time wearing a hat that says “Haunted” in…
[Ali and Dre laugh loudly]
Austin: Wait, what?! Oh my god, I see him.
Jack: And also the name of the uploader of both…
[loud laughter]
Jack: Is Tuco Salamanca, the character from Breaking Bad. [laughter] There’s even a picture of Tuco.
Art: I can’t believe he got these candid pictures of the Mcelroys inventing dabbing.
[loud laughter, especially from Austin]
Dre: There it is, yup.
[Ali screams a little]
Dre: Well. Now we can’t put this in a podcast anywhere. Thanks, Art.
Ali: [laughing deeply] We can. Yes, we can.
Keith: Yeah, you can.
Ali: And you can pay a dollar for it. Thank you very much.
[laughter from all]
Austin: [cross] Griffin, thank you for your support.
Art: [cross] I think we gotta charge more for our potentially libellous podcast.
[Jack sighs]
[Ali laughs]
Jack: Oh my god.
Art: I’m sorry, it’s slander. I’m…
Ali: They know the situation they’re in!
Keith: [cross] Did you see the “Fuck Boy” hat, did you already bring that one up, or does that say “Fuck Bay”?
Janine: [cross] I don’t think it’s slander to say that some people have some bad ideas about who invented dabbing.
Austin:  I think that says — 
Janine: That’s not slander, that’s just life.
Austin: That says Fuck Bay, but not bae.
Keith: [snorts] I think that says — no, bay like hey, this is the beach where people fuck at.
Jack: Hi, welcome to Fuck Bay, I’m the mayor.
Austin: Welcome to Fuck Bay!
Keith: Fuck Bay!
Janine: I think it says Fuck Boy!
Austin: There’s — also — 
Janine: I think that just says Fuck Boy.
Keith: I think it says Fuck Bay.
Janine: But like with a space in the middle, 
Austin: [cross] It isn’t spelled right. With a space and a Y.
Janine: [cross] Which is like a dad — that’s the dad twist on it, is there’s a space. Between Fuck and Boy.
Austin: Oh.
Dre: Yeah, I think it is fuckboy.
Austin: This is bad.
Art: I’m keeping the Fuck Bay dream alive.
Sylvia: I like the idea of the Fuck Bay.
Keith: Fuck bay…
Austin: I like this dad hat in the bottom right that says — it’s pink and it says “Girl Power” in the Metallica font.
[Ali snorts]
Keith: Why do they think that these dads are wearing hats that says “dope as fuck”-- 
Ali: Oh, no, it’s just a typo.
Keith: — and a pot leaf.
Sylvia: I don’t…
Ali: It’s like boyfriend shirt.
Dre: Oh, okay. All right.
Art: Oh, it’s describing the hat.
Janine: Ah.
Keith: Oh, is a dad hat just like a baseball cap without a baseball team on it?
Ali: Yeah. Yes.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Oh, actually — I wonder, are these baseball hats or are these the baseball hat that are kind of like fat and baggy?
Keith: [cross] Well, the one of those is on the top for sure.
Art: [cross] They’re a little distressed, certainly.
Janine: Yeah.
Ali: [cross] They all come with —
Janine: [cross] That’s why I’m confused.
Ali: Like a pre-made curve in them, which is how you know that they’re a dad hat.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: [cross] Can we get — 
Austin: [cross] Ohh, true.
Ali: [cross] ‘Cause dads cruve instead of keeping it flat. ‘Cause they’re not cool.
Keith:  Is that — bottom right, “Girl Power” in weird font, or is that something else? Gel Poser?
Austin: That’s what I said, it’s Girl Power, it’s Girl Power.
Keith: [cross] It might say Gel Poser.
Art: [cross] It’s probably Gel Poser.
Keith: [wheezing] Jesus!
Austin: It could say Gel Poser.
Ali: Who could know.
Keith: [wheezing] I would love a hat that says Gel Poser!
[1:11:20]
Dre: Does that hat in the top left just say "fuck." and that's it? (cross) It just says the word "fuck" on it?
Keith: (cross, wheezing) I think it-- with a period… 
Austin: (cross) With a period, yeah.
Sylvia: (cross) Hell yeah it does!
Art: (overlapping) I mean you can't like--
Janine: (overlapping) It could say suck, I mean, we don't really know.
Keith: (overlapping) It could say something-- 
Art: Duck?
Keith: It could say something above that, too. 'Cause it's been kind of (cross) folded weird.
Sylvia: (cross) Oh my god.
Keith: Woow. Is that a-- 
Austin: The real problem is now I've learned that Spencer's Gifts has a website and I can just find all of these hats.
Keith: Ok, this is--
Austin: (cont) 8 pages of dad hats. (cross) It's just 8 pages of dad hats.
Sylvia: (cross) Should I buy this Kingdom Hearts dad hat?
Ali: Yeesss.
Austin: Ooh, my god.
Keith: Okay, I-- (cross) I'm gonna need some imagination,
Ali: (cross) Wow, that's like a denim hat.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: (cross) Wait--
Ali: (cross) This is so good.
Austin: What if you were a dad who loved hip hop culture and also (sing-song) the holidays~! This is a "Get Lit" (collective groaning, cross) dad hat.
Janine: (cross) Why are all their Christmas sweaters about fucking?
Dre: Oh, a butt plug.
Janine: Every (cross) single one— 
Sylvia: (cross) 'Cause that's Spencer's Gifts!
Janine: (cont) of these Christmas sweaters is about fucking! There's--
Ali: Yeah, all of them are.
Janine: not even like, (cross) like there's so many other--
Keith: (cross) That-- As a kid-- As a kid, that was always my-- like, idea of what Spencer's Gifts was? Is where, it's a place where you go to get regular stuff that says you're drunk or you're horny on it.
Dre: Yeah.
[1:12:19 - second transcriber]
Sylvia: Is this fuckboy hat in the “Got Milk?” font?
Ali: Or an actual vibrator.
Austin: What?
Sylvia: The fuckin like —
Ali: They sell those there. Like a lot.
Austin: Wait no, say that again, what Sylvia was saying, sorry. No, I…
Sylvia: Is this fuckboy hat, it looks like it’s the “Got Milk?” font.
[Dre laughs]
Austin: It is. [Ali sighs] It is, it is.
Sylvia: Like look, I found a picture of it.
Ali: Oh, wow.
Austin: Do you want me to read the description here on the website — [over various sighs and cringes] “Whether you know one or are one, call it like you see it with this stylish dad hat. Distressed denim and the honest embroidered message are perfect for rocking that fuckboy look.”
Keith: [cross] That thing is such a huge — 
Art: [cross] I’d just like a non-sexual ugly sweater.
Ali: Oh, so —
Janine: I just love that you can get Super Mario checkers and tic tac toe here and also a full selection of lingerie?
Ali: Mm-hm!
Austin: Yeah!
Keith: Um. The other —
Sylvia: Damn, I was really hoping they had a fuckboy fedora but they don’t.
[Austin sighs]
Keith: The other important thing about this dad picture is you can see the Shenanigans Irish Pub shirt, which is like the most, like, everyone that you’ve ever met in Massachusets that you hate has a shirt like that.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: God.
Keith: Like, that’s like their identity shirt, is Shenanigans Irish Pub.
Art: [cross] I’ve been on the Long Island Railroad.
Janine: [cross] There’s a category under Home and Dorm  for Medieval and Fantasy Decor, I’m just gonna say that.
Ali: Ooh, this Christmas [cross] fedora is on sale!
Sylvia: [cross] Do they sell swords — they have to sell swords, right?
Austin: Oh, I don’t think they’re allowed to sell swords.
Keith: I bet they sell knives! I bet they sell knives.
Austin: Oh, they might sell knives.
Ali: Keith, in 60 seconds or less, please tell everyone your recent sword story.
Keith: Oh [laughs]. So I was buying this like—
Austin: Sword.
Keith: —Chinese-style tea brewing set from this website.
Austin: Uh-huh.
Keith: From this sort of shady website, and I was like, I trust this enough to buy this. ‘Cause they were having a sale, it was almost 50% off. So I bought it, two days passed, never got like a shipping confirmation or anything from them, so I emailed them being like ”hey, can I get the shipping confirmation like whenever you get it” and then the next day they emailed me back like “oh, that’s out of stock. Um. You can pick something else from the store, or you could also buy a Japanese sword?”
[All laugh]
Keith: [still laughing] And I just — 
Austin: Okay!
Keith: Oh, sorry, it’s “if you prefer, you could have a Japanese sword”. And I just like the idea of like that if I preferred a Japanese sword, the way I would get it is I would order an out-of-stock tea set [Austin: Uh-huh.] [Ali starts laughing] and then hope someone offered me a Japanese sword as a replacement.
Austin: Well, this is also incredibly Bluff City, like if anyone ever ends with a magical sword in Bluff City, this is how they got it.
Ali: Mm-hm.
Sylvia: They sell a keyblade.
Ali: Of course they do!
[Janine groans]
Austin: So they do have swords.
Ali: [cackles] We’ve —
Sylvia: I searched sword and I found the keyblade. [Dre laughs] I also think I found Evil’s sickle.
Austin: What?
Ali: Excuse me?
Sylvia: From New Japan, Evil the wrestle, [Ali: Oh lord.] he comes out with like a scythe, and this looks a lot like it.
Austin: Oh my god…
Ali: Wow!!
Sylvia: Right?!
Dre: This speculum wall mirror is a lot, ‘cause they blocked the whole mirror. You can’t use the mirror!
Janine: Sorry, what?
[Ali laughs]
[Austin struggles to breathe]
Sylvia: Hm?
Dre: It’s the thing that Austin liked!
Janine: Sorry, what?!
Sylvia: The speculum wall mirror!
Dre: Yeah, c’mon!
Janine: Oh, okay, I did hear that, huh.
[Sylvia laughs]
[So does Austin]
Janine: Wait, I don’t — 
Dre: Hey, I don’t name these things!
Janine: What?
Dre: I don’t name them.
Janine: I… 
Austin: What’s up?
Janine: …Which of these, I don’t see it. [cross] I see a fedora…
Austin: [cross] It’s the one with the lady. It’s this. It’s this right here.
Dre: Isn’t…
Ali: [cross] The lady and the snake.
Austin: [cross] Make your space that much cooler with this speculum wall mirror!
[Keith laughs]
Janine: Why is it called that?!
Art: That’s a great question.
Ali: [as others laugh] Well, obviously it’s a speculum and it’s a mirror you put on your wall, I mean, come on!
Keith: I have another question about the main picture, is — to the right of the beer bong and what looks like an Irish-themed alarm clock, [Austin: Uh-huh.] is that a megaphone or is that like a weird like coffee air pot?
Austin: Wait, which one is — this is the dad, [cross] we’re back to the dad?
Keith: [cross] This is the dad, yeah, the classic dad, not the haunted dad.
Dre: [cross] That’s a megaphone. 
Austin: I see the beer — 
Dre: That’s a megaphone.
Keith: There’s the beer bong —
Austin: That’s a megaphone, you can zoom in.
Keith: It’s a megaphone?
Austin: You can zoom in. That’s a megaphone.
Keith: I’m zoomed in, and I still kind of can’t tell that it’s a megaphone, because of the strap that’s hanging down? Do megaphones have straps?
Austin: I could see that.
Dre: Megaphones have a strap on it, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, you got a strap on your megaphone.
Keith: And the handle looks kind of like maybe a spout.
Dre: …I mean, I can see what you’re talking about, [Keith: Okay.] bbut I’m pretty sure it’s a megaphone.
Austin: I can. That’s a megaphone.
Keith: It’s a megaphone?
Austin: Uh? Mm.
Dre: Like I could see like — 
Keith: Yeah!
Dre: — why you think it’s something, but I’m pretty sure it’s a megaphone.
Austin: It looks like it could be a coffee pot!
Keith: It looks like it could be a coffee pot.
Austin: It’s not, I think it’s not. But.
Janine: They sell an incense burner that looks like a skeleton dragon trying to get some.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Fuck yeah!
Ali: So I was just about to ask, should I lean so far into being a stoner than I should get this cool crystal purple dragon [laughs] standing incense burner? [Janine laughs] ‘Cause like.
Dre: Yes.
Ali: It’s like a big shaft with like a crystal?
Austin: Yeah, no, this is from Bad Dragon.
Ali: Situation?
Sylvia: Yeah, that’s a — that’s a — that’s a — [Ali laughs] golem dick.
[Dre laughs]
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: This is also a different type of sword.
Janine: That’s a cross-section of a golem dick.
Sylvia: Yeah. Like.
Austin: Right.
Janine: This is anatomical, this is like a scientific thing.
[Austin sighs]
Art: What are we—
Austin: Tenga could also make this, actually.
Janine: This fuckin…
Ali: Oh, Jack, if I don’t take you to the crystal store when you’re in New York City, um.
Jack: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ali: Remind me to do that.
Dre: Oh, fuck.
Sylvia: By the way, I looked at trucker hats, and I can confirm Spencer’s is alt right.
[Austin snorts]
Keith: Yeah. Hey, yeah. [Austin keeps laughing] I mean, like, the wall of Irish stuff was enough for me. To. That’s.
Austin: [cross] That’s the line, that’s it.
Keith: [cross] Yeah.
Ali: Um, so I have accidentally moused over “Naughty” so many times, and immediately seen the words “anal toy” like so big.
Sylvia: Yep!
Austin: Yeah, it’s just right there!
[Janine and Austin laugh]
Ali: That I am so ready to discuss who our favorite, like, whatever is at this point. 
Dre: Hm.
Ali: I am good!
[Jack laughs]
Austin: [cross] Who our favorite — 
Keith: [cross] All right, what do you think is under the “guys’ tshirts”? I bet those are all really good. Ooh, a Rick and Morty szechuan dippin’ sauce shirt!
Austin: All right— 
Ali: Of course.
Austin: —we’re moving on. That’s the line.
Keith: Yep, bye!
Austin: [sighs] And it’s hard for me, ‘cause I see that they have “guys’ anime tees”, but I’m gonna move on.
Dre: I’m looking at their anime hats right now, they’re not very good.
Austin: Yeah, I’d believe it. If I want a good anime, I’d go to Hot Topic.
Ali: Yep.
Janine: They also have a whole category just for beer pong.
Austin: Do you wanna —
Janine: Like that’s a whooole catergory on its own on this site.
Austin: We — okay, wait wait wait, okay. We’re back. [Janine clears her throat] We’re back, I’m bringing us back to life.
Sylvia: [cross] Okay. I’ll close this weed dragon.
Austin: [cross] Whew, we took a— we… okay. Well, people are gonna have to pay a dollar a month to hear about the weird dragon.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Keith: T-shirt that says “Squad Goals” and has Mario, Peach —
Sylvia: That’s marketing.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: And Yoshi on it.
Sylvia: Yeah!
Austin: We’ve chosen our favorite contacts, we’ve updated our basic ship info. I believe we’ve 
done all of those things, I’ve jumped too far back in this fuckin document now.
[interstitial synth music]
[1:18:53 - segment 12]
Ali: …You’re so beautiful.
Austin: [snorts] I think there’s a cat. [cross] Is there a cat?
Keith: [cross] Did a cat show up?
Ali: Yeah. [laughs] Did you hear that aside?
Austin: Oh, yeah! Uh-huh. [Ali laughs] Totally did hear it. That was good. Um, all right. So…
[interstitial synth music]
[1:19:07 - segment 13]
Keith: I would love to talk to Gordon Ramsey, even though I don’t really know anything about him. Or like talking to most people.
Austin: [laughs] [cross] Those things would be the two things you need, though.
Art: [cross] I agree that — 
Keith: It just seems like a… Yeah. [snorts]
Jack: [cross] [quietly] He’s angry a lot.
Keith: [cross] I have a…
Austin: He is.
Keith: Yeah. I heard that on the British shows he’s not as angry.
Jack: Ah, no, he’s pretty angry on the British shows, but… he’s also angry on the British shows.
Keith: Oh — you know what I heard? You know what it was? The difference between the British shows and the American shows? I heard that they’ll show episodes where he goes back and visits restaurants and they have like closed or failed or gone back to sucking, after he left, and in America they just show the good ones.
Jack: I don’t… I mean, I’m sure he’s a good — 
Ali: I — Oh, go on.
Jack: I’m sure he’s like a good cook, and I like that he puts the work into make sure people are cooking well, but there is something kind of fundamentally unappealing to me about an angry male chef. [Ali laughs softly] And just like watching [cross] them… be… is…
Keith: [cross] Yeah… So like a chef.
Jack: Well, but i’ve definitely seen chefs who are like, who make a point of like actually being — it’s like all those stories about theater directors or like ballet teachers who are like, I’m going to be basically borderline abusive constantly to people. And that’s my gimmick. [Keith: Yeah, yeah.] And I find that such an unappealing gimmick? And that’s where I feel on… Gordon.
Keith: I liked the story about the chef that tried to get Michelin to take back his three stars [cross] because he was like, I’m not having fun cooking anymore.
Jack: [cross] Oh my god! Did you see this, Austin? Austin is not here —
Austin: I’m muted, I’m back.
Jack: It’s like a— it’s a really sad story. This guy whose life—
Keith: It’s a really sad story.
Jack: — is basically ruined by Michelin giving him two stars. Or — 
Keith: Oh, was it two? I thought it was three.
Jack: Oh, man, they gave him some amount, like, and it basically just like ruined this guy’s life? Just like, they awwarded him these two abstract numbers, [cross] and suddenly his entire life was…
Austin: [cross] Hadn’t he just previously been…
Jack: He was just like a very good local chef, and then Michelin people were like [snaps fingers] you know what? [slight laugh] We’re gonna make this — 
Keith: Yeah, they gave him these two stars and he was like, I can’t have fun cooking anymore because I always have to be giving [Austin: [understanding] Ohhh!] all of these people a three star Michelin experience, and I have to always be ready for…
Jack: An inspection.
Keith: More Michelin people to come in and test me.
Ali: Oh.
Austin: That sucks. [cross] I thought you were saying — see, I misunderstood the whole thing.
Keith: [cross] He was like, I don’t like cooking anymore.
Austin: I thought you were saying that he’d previously been like, a four star Michelin, [Jack: [repeating] No no no…] and they dropped him to three, and then it all fell apart.
Keith: No, no, I think three’s the highest you can be.
Art: Three is the maximum, yes.
Austin: Okay.
Ali: [understanding] Ohhh.
Jack: Yeah, three’s the highest you can get. It’s likea  whole… Michelin stars, especially in Europe, are just this weird curse that is applied to you. And it’s so precarious, ‘cause Michelin inspectors can come by any time, and they usually come by secretly. And for a Michelin-starred restaurant to lose a star is essentially like a — becomes a scandal.
Austin: Right.
Jack: So you are esssentially — you are not consenting to being put in this bizarro position for the rest of your life, basically?
Keith: Mm. Yeah.
Jack: It’s rough! [sighs]
Keith: It’s rough, yeah.
Austin: Sounds bad.
Jack: This is me —
Keith: That was a really sad story, but I’m really glad — I’m glad that that guy just said, take your goddamn stars away. [Ali laughs]
Jack: Yeah, it’s so good.
Austin: Right. [laughs]
Jack: This is all to say that I’m stopping cooking. I’m sorry.
Austin: [laughing] Oh!
[Keith and Ali laugh loudly]
Austin: Too good! He’s[3] just too good.
Jack: [laughing] I’m just too good at cooking!
Keith: Too good.
Austin: God. Um. Okay. Are we ready?
Jack: Is this Miracle, or Twilight Mirage?
Austin: This is Twilight Mirage. This is…
Jack: In the Roll20?
Austin: Oh, it is… I sent an invite, didn’t I, a while ago?
Keith: Miracle. [cross] I went to Miracle, yeah.
Austin: [cross] No, it’s — is that where you — and you’re in?
Ali: Yeah, you should be in… Miracle…
Keith: I’m pretty sure — yeah.
Austin: Oh, yeah, it is just Miracle. 
Keith: [cross] Yeah, Miracle, yeah.
Jack: [cross] Okay, cool.
Austin: Right, yeah yeah yeah. I’m gonna rename it. [various sighs from all] Um.
Sylvia: [in distance] Ow ow ow ow ow! Fuck!
Austin: You okay?
Jack: You okay?
[pause]
Austin: Art?
Ali: [amused] Mm!
Keith: Hey, Art?
Art: Yeah.
Keith: Art just got disappeared by the BoD.
[someone snorts]
Austin: [laughs] Are you okay?
Art: Oh my god!
Keith: Are you all right?
Art: Jess just needed my help because we got these envelopes for cards and one of them had a bug in it!
[Ali gasps]
Austin: Ew!
Dre: Whoa!
Art: And the bug had gotten crushed [Keith: Whoa!] in the envelope in the factory, and then I came back and I really got my hand on the hinge on my headphones.
[Ali and Jack gasp in dismay]
Austin: That’s not good. That’s bad.
Art: [distantly] [cross] This is gonna be bad, yeah.
Austin: [cross] I thought the bug may have bitten you, and we were like, ah, bad… 
Ali: Yeah!
Jack: Time for the hospital.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Time to go to the hostpial together.
Art: Yeah, a mystery bug from wherever these envelopes are from — no, that bug’s dead.
Austin: [laughing] Oh, okay!
Ali: Well, congratulations on that.
Keith: Did it start off dead, or did it get that way after being found out?
Art: No, no, it came — it came into our lives dead.
Austin: [laughs quietly] That’s the beginning of my novel.
Keith: [luaghing] It came dead — I found this bug, it came dead!
[Ali laughs]
Austin: My new New Yorker short story starts. [Ali sighs] “It came into our lives dead.” Ugh. It’s very sad. Um.
Keith: Transformed into this weird author.
Austin: Yeah. Uh, ready to do an intro and a time.is and all that?
Art: Yeah yeah yeah…
Ali: [tiredly, and with a fancy voice] I suppose~.
[Jack sighs]
Keith: It’s startling how unprepared I am to get to time.is every time we do this.
[Ali laughs[
Jack: Wait wait wait, wait, wait! We’re the Chime! It’s just the Chime!
Ali: Yeah! Mm-hm.
Austin: Yeah, it’s just the Chime. Ali and I figured this out the other day.
Jack: I just noticed!
Austin: Yeah.
Jack: Oh, wow!
Austin: Uh-huh.
Art: Twice in two months—
Keith: Oh! Hey.
Art: — we’re really spoiling everyone.
[Austin laughs]
Jack: Yeah, it’s great.
Keith: What was the — [cross] oh, the first one was in Bluff, yeah.
Jack: [cross] Was in Bluff.
Austin: [cross] It was Bluff, yeah. Yeah. All right. 45?
Art: Sure.
Jack: Mm-hm!
Austin: Okay. [clicking] 
[five distinct claps]
Ali: [amused] I tbbed to time.is at 45, [cross] and I clapped, and it’s fine.
Austin: [cross] Okay, so let’s do 55.
Art: My clap wasn’t good enough?
Ali: I clapped!
Austin: What do you mean your —
Art: My clap wasn’t good enough.
Keith: There was one that sounded late.
[Ali laughs]
Art: Mine didn’t go to the top, it’s not a good clap.
[Ali and Austin sigh]
Art: [cross] I didn’t like clap hard enough.
Austin: [cross] Okay, let’s do 10 seconds.
Ali: [cross] 10. 10 seconds.
[some okay claps and a final, late clap]
Art: There it is, that’s a clap!
[Ali laughs dryly]
Austin: Okay.
Art: You’ll see. Ali’ll see later, it just was not a good — it just wasn’t a clap.
Ali: I...use [1:25:32] [???] anyway.
Keith:Yeah.
Art: It was like I went “puh!” with my mouth. That was better.
Austin: Now there’s gonna be a third clap, and it’s Art going “puh!” with his mouth.
Ali: Yep!
Austin: All right.
[Keith laughs]
Art: It didn’t go to the top.
Keith: Can we switch from clapping to —
Austin: [cross] Puh!
Keith: [cross] Puh-ing?
Austin: All right, everybody puh at 35 seconds. Puh!
Keith: [laughing] It would be really funny to have just a whole group of people going, puh! [laughing harder] All at the same time!
Austin: [amused] Everybody go to puh.is.
[Keith laughs too hard and coughs]
Ali: [sighs, tired] I do not wish to.
Austin: All right. I’m gonna do an intro.
[interstitial synth music]
[1:26:04 - segment 14]
Keith: Cricket, come on.
Ali: [laughs] What’s that baby up to?
[shuffling noise]
Keith: She’s hooked into my sweatershirt and can’t get off.
[crunching]
Ali: Fool.
Keith: Cricket, come on! Okay, there you go. Oh my god! [Ali laughs] She kept getting the other claw hooked! I kept taking one off and the other one was stuck. She says, no, I’m scared of laps.
[Ali laughs]
[Austin makes a sympathetic noise]
Ali: Cricket sounds like such a nice cat.
Keith: She’s very nice, and also, very scared of. Everything.
Ali: [laughs] Just… sounds like a cat to me!
Keith: Yeah.
[Austin laughs quietly]
Keith: [sighs] [cross] Boys.
Ali: [cross] How are those Pringles?
Austin: [content] They’re fine.
Jack: I’m back!
Ali: Hi.
Austin: I’ve eaten too many of them, ‘cause I’m hungry.
Jack: What you eatin’?
Austin: Pringles, still.
Keith: What flavor?
Jack: Ah, they’re good, though, aren’t they?
Austin:  Just plain, regular old Pringles. Yeah, they’re good. They’re good. I should — [cross] stop eating these, though.
Keith: [cross] That’s the only kind of Pringle I like, is the regular kind.
Austin: Mm-hm, mm-hm.
Jack: Yeah, they’re not dinner but they are good.
Austin: Mm.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I haven’t had Pringles in ages…
Austin: You’re not wrong.
Keith: The problem with Pringles is that all the flavors the dust taste really bad? So like I love sour cream and onion, and I love regular Pringles, but sour cream and onion Pringles are like, [cross] ew, this is not good.
Ali: [cross] Oh, god, they’re the worst! 
Keith: It’s truly heinous.
Austin: Yeah. I’m with you.
Ali: I don’t know if I could do the texture of Pringles anymore, even though I should probably just get a can and try.
Austin: Get a tiny can.
Keith: You should try — they’re got those little — they’ve got those like third cans, [cross] you know?
Austin: [cross] Yeah. Yeah. [inaudible]
Ali: [cross] Yeah.
JAKC: Oh yeah, those are good. Those are good.
Ali: I just like, I’m so into ridged chips now that like Pringles are too thin.
Keith: [disgusted] Oh, ridged chips are…
Ali: They’re like so thin.
Keith: [cross] The problem…
Jack: [cross] Ridged chips are pretty good.
Keith: The thing about Pringles is you have to be like —  you can’t go like, oh, I’m eating chips and those chips are called Pringles.
Ali: Mm-hm.
Keith: You have to be like, oh, I’m eating Pringles.
Ali: Yeah. Mm-hm.
Austin: Fair.
Jack: It’s ‘cause — yeah. Yeah…
Keith: Um.
Jack: I think I can only eat one at a time, you know, as soon as you get a second Pringle into the mix at once it gets flaky and that’s, you know. That’s not good.
Keith: I like to do the duck mouth thing, that’s a old… thing, cause I — that’s a very school— 
Austin: [cross] That’s a classic. Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: [cross] Second grade — it’s a classic second grade bit.
Jack: It’s a classic, yeah!
Keith: The problem with —
Jack: You gotta do it once each time with Pringles, [sinisterly] otherwise you’re cursed.
Keith: Mmhm. Yeah — [laughs loudly] That’s why it’s a classic, is ‘cause anyone that hasn’t —
Jack: Better, Austin. Yeah.
Keith: Anyone that hasn’t done it is then cursed. Um. I never buy Pringles because I’m still not used to having them. Pringles was one of those snacks that like everyone always seemed to have, but my mom wouldn’t buy. Like all the other good snacks. Like, uh, Dunkaroos or Hostess cupcakes. Pretty much anything worth eating. Gushers, Fruit by the Foot. I don’t think my mom ever bought like a gummy snack for the entire time that I was in, like, bring your lunch to school age.
Ali: You should catch up. Shark snacks are great.
Keith: [cross] I love those, those are fantastic.
Jack: [cross] Shark snacks?
Austin: Those are good.
Ali: You’ve — oh, Jack, you’ve never had a shark snack?
Austin; Yeah, yeah. I don’t think they had those over there.
Jack: Googling that now.
Ali: Sharks — 
Keith: It’s weird that they havent brought — they haven’t brought food to the UK yet.
Austin: Yeah, they — no one eats there. [Ali laughs] At all, actually. [Keith laughs] Ah, shark bites is what we’re talking about, right?
Jack: Yeah, I just googled shark snack and it was not useful. All right, shark…
Austin: Ah, don’t — don’t don’t don’t don’t — 
Ali: Oh my god, no, don’t do that. Holy shit!
Austin: Don’t don’t don’t — 
Jack: I didn’t click images. I didn’t. I didn’t.
Austin: Okay.
Jack: I just realize what we were talking…
Ali: I was in Google Images.
Austin: Do shark bite snacks. [Ali sighs] [cross] And you’ll get it.
Keith: [cross] How about shark bites candy? Works.
Austin: Snacks works. I’m seeing…
Jack: We all okay here? You okay, Ali?
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: [wheezing laugh] I am! Yep.
Keith: Now…
Austin: Woof!
Ali: Um. So, shark snacks! For — or shark bites, for anyone who doesn’t know, is… It’s like a gummy, but it’s like — 
Keith: It’s the s…
Ali: It has a hardness, like a Swedish fish? 
Austin: Yeah, but not — 
Ali: So it’s a little more satisfying snack than a gummy bear.
Austin: But it’s not a Swedish fish.
Ali: It isn’t, no no no.
Keith: It’s not. But it’s — texture-wise, it’s not — it’s more like a Swedish fish.
Jack: What is a Swedish fish?
Ali: [cross] Oh my god, okay, hold on… [laughs]
Keith: [cross] Oh my god!
Austin: [cross] What are we doing? What is this? What is this?
Ali: Aren’t you from Europe, where Sweden is?
[Keith laughs and struggles to speak]
Austin: How do you not have Swedish fish?
Keith: Did any of you see the John Mulaney, Nick Kroll “Oh, Hello” special on Netflix?
Ali: I did, yeah, I saw it live.
Keith: Swedish fish is the Lamborghini of the gummies.
[Ali laughs]
Jack: Wow, this is just like a…
Austin: They’re wine gummies, but they’re — 
Keith: But they’re sweet.
Austin: —Not as — they’re sweet. [Ali: Yeah.] They don’t have that bitterness that a wine gummy has.
Keith: And they’re soooo teeth-sticky.
[Jack laughs]
Austin: They’re so teeth-sticky— 
Ali: Art, can you — 
Austin: — and I don’t eat them anymore for fear of ruining my teeth.
Jack: I found an incredible single line from this Wikipedia page. “Originally covered— colored red, with a flavor unique to the candy, [often guessed to be lingonberry, but never verified].”
Keith: [laughs loudly in distance] It’s a good taste. I love Swedish fish.
Austin: It is.
Keith: I have recently learned that a lot of people truly despise Swedish fish, but —
Ali: [cross] Oh, really?
Austin: [outraged] [cross] What?
Keith: Yeah, yeah, I have heard, this year, like specifically the last six months, I have seen lots of like “Swedish fish is nasty” and I was like, I just thought it was everyone’s favorite.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah, I loved them, especially in high school and just like every other day I had Swedish fish. They were like my go-to candy.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali:  Yeah.
Keith: It’s really like… I still have them every once in a while, but it has to be like — the thing that I want to do is have candy and then spend an hour fussing with my teeth. Like.
Austin: Right. Mm-hm.
Keith: Just sort of like tonguing [Ali: yeah.] my gums. You know?
Ali: That’s why I don’t eat Skittles anymore either, ‘cause they’re like [Austin: Yeah.] just too sweet to eat.
Jack: Yeah…
Austin: Yeah. My — 
Jack: I quite like Skittles.
Keith: I had Skittles —
Austin: My office has a Skittle dispenser, and that’s perfect, [Jack: Oh, yeah.] ‘cause you can get a handful of Skittles and no more, [cross] and that is the right amount. It’s very good.
Ali: [cross] Ohhh. Oh, I have to visit you  ‘cause I keep wanting to get peanut butter M&Ms.
Austin: They’re so good.
Keith: [cross] Those are great.
Austin: [cross] You can get those at the store, also, just as a  —
Ali: I just — yeah, but — [laughs] for free.
Austin: For sure, yeah.
Jack: “I only get my snacks from Vice Media.”
[Keith laughs]
[Austin sighs]
Art: Hey, sorry about that. [closing door]
Jack: It’s cool.
Ali: Yeah, we’re good.
Art: [quietly] We did Hanukkah.
Jack: Just then?
Art: [cross] Yeah.
Keith: [cross] You just did Hanukkah?
Ali: Aw.
Keith: All eight days?
Austin: Nice.
Art: No, it’s six, night six.
Ali: [cross] Happy Hanukkah!
Keith: [cross] No, no, I mean, I thought maybe you just did all eight days right now.
Art: No. Just the one.
[Austin laughs quietly]
Ali: Oh, Art, can you do me a favor while Jack is in LA and get him* a box of Shark Bites? Thank you.
Art: A box of, I’m sorry, what?
Ali: [cross] Shark Bites?
Austin: [cross] Shark bites! Candy shark snacks?
Art: No, this isn’t real.
Keith: [cross] Shark gummies. Very very similar to — 
Austin: [cross] Whoa. Don’t say - 
Ali: [cross] No. 
Austin: Don’t —  d d d — 
Jack: [cross] Oh ho ho.
Keith: [cross] Don’t just — 
Austin: Wait wait wait wait, before you search, don’t Google image search [cross] for shark bites.
Jack: [cross] Don’t google image search shark bites.
Keith: They are — 
Ali: No.
Austin: Shark bite snacks.
Keith: They’re traditional lunchbox gummy candies, very similar to the Scooby Doo lunchbox gummies.
Austin: Those I have not seen.
Keith: [cross] Those are really good —
Art: [cross] Oh, sure, I’ve seen these before. It’s like —
Keith: And it’s the same — [Ali: Yeah.] it’s the same srt of thing wher eit’s like some of them are transclucent and some of  them are totally opaque, and I like that a lot. 
Ali: Well, it’s weird, ‘cause like — 
Keith: I like when some of my gummies are see-through and some of them aren’t.
Ali: There’s like the Welch’s gummies, and those are like gummy bear gummies. Shark Bites are s—
Austin: No, those are different than gummy b — Welch’s gummies are not like gummy bear gummies.
Ali: Well they don’t have the hardness that a Shark Bite has, [cross] which is their selling point.
Austin: [cross] Yeah, but they have — yeah, they’re very soft,  but they don’t have the stickiness [Ali: yeah.] and gooiness of a gummy — not gooiness, [Ali: Oh, yeah.] but you know what I mean.
Keith: I found that like Haribos are very hard. And that’s the classic gummy.
Austin: Yes. Sure.
Ali: [doubtful] Mm….
Austin: Those are a classic gummy. Haribo, it turns out, not great.
Keith: No. Don’t like em.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: As a — [Austin: No.] wait, as a candy or as a company?
Ali: Don’t they use slave labor?
Austin: They use slave labor [huffs].
Keith: Oh, you meant [cross] as a company, wow.
Art: [cross] To make fuckin gummy bears?
Austin: Yeah.
[Ali laughs]
Keith: Yeah. They can’t — 
Art: Whoa.
Keith: They decided it’s not worth their time [Austin: Yeah…] to pay people to make gummy candies. [cross] I actually haven’t heard of this.
Ali: [cross] Gotta grow some bananas, gotta watch out for them.
Art: That’s. 
Austin:  Yeah, that’s a bummer.
Art: Wild!
Austin: Yeah! Anyway. Ready?
[Ali laughs]
Art: I did not expect that.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Me either. 
Keith: [cross] I guess I’m ready.
Austin: [cross] It’s a shame, I liked a lot of their products. Now I can’t — I’m not — I’m done. I’m done with you, Haribo.
Keith: [cross] Yeah, I don’t like their gummies, so.
Austin: [cross] I have to buy whatever other brand and just hope that they don’t use slave labor!
[Ali laughs]
Art: Jess hates it when I ruin things for her like this.
Keith: Yeah… 
Austin: Don’t tell her.
Ali: Tell her. What? [laughs]
Austin: Tell her. Tell her. Tell  her.
Ali: That’s gonna be the one she wants to know.
Austin:  Yeah, slave labor is it, right?
Art:  I don’t know, she’s still mad at me about Marky Mark.
Keith: Oh, boy.
Ali: Oh…
Austin: She was a big Marky Mark fan?
Art: [cross] She loved them.
Keith: [cross] And that one’s kind of right out on front street.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: [whispers] Yeah…
Austin: All right.
Ali: [whispering] His movies are so good… no.
Austin: So we’re back, I’m guessing? Are we back?
Ali: Yep. Mm-hm.
Art: We’re back!
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Okay! So the alarm starts going off.
[interstitial synth music]
[1:34:55 - segment 15]
Ali: What happens if 20 of them decide on a different thing, or…
AUSIN: I need to go get food, be right back. [Ali: Okay. [laughs]] I think food’s here. I’ll be right back. Sorry.
Jack: I’m gonna run to the loo while Austin’s getting food.
Ali: Okay.
Keith: I’m gonna let my screaming cat out of this prison she’s in.
Art: I’m gonna run Mabel to the bathroom, yeah.
Ali: [laughs] Okay. Goodbye, everyone.
Art: [distantly] Oh, Mabel-dog!
[Keith laughs]
Ali: Aw! [laughs very hard] He loves that dog.
[ending music plays]
[1:35:41 - end]


________________
[1] The name in the audio recording is no longer in use, hence the audio/transcript discrepancy.
[2] The name in the audio recording is no longer in use, hence the audio/transcript discrepancy.
[3] This pronoun is no longer in use.