Clapcast 48: It’s Coming Home (August 2021)
Transcriber: robotchangeling




Keith: There's a world where I have done something so outrageous that I get stabbed, that I'm like, “Well, I had it coming.” I wouldn't like it. [Jack chuckles] And I'm sure it would be more like, [imitating pained shouting] “Aaah! I can't believe I had this coming!” or something. But I— 


Jack: Are you talking about if you were in a situation where, for example, Keith, you had ruled the city of Rome as part of a plutocracy—  


Keith: Yes.


Jack: —for several generations, and the people of Rome say enough's enough.


Keith: Yeah. This is the exact sort of thing that I can see myself getting stabbed for, is having found myself— 


Jack: I think you would make a terrible Roman dictator.


Keith: [sighs] You mean terrible, like, they would call me— 


Jack: Ineffective.


Keith: —Keith the Terrible in the books? Or be— I just would not be an effective dictator.


Jack: No, you wouldn’t be like a high dread...I don't think you'd be very effective. I think you are so...


Keith: I would be like a late-stage French king.


Jack: What? No. I think you would be so antithetical to everything that being a dictator would require that I don't think you’d get close. 


Keith: Yeah.


Jack: You’d get killed by the people who would think you were in the way. Out of the three of us, I— uhh.


Keith: Who’s—  


Jack: ‘Cause Art, you're very kind.


Art: Thank you. 


Keith: Right. I'm not as kind as Art is. I know that that's true. [Art makes amused sound]


Jack: I think that's true. But I mean, I think you both have very strong, um...you believe in a strong moral imperative for good.


Keith: Right. I am ideologically motivated to not be a dictator, despite my lesser kindness. Not that Art isn’t also ideologically motivated to not be a dictator. [Art laughs] It's just we share that important aspect.


Jack: Um, how's your kitchen counter situation, Art?


Art: Mmm.


Jack: Mmm? 


Art: It just flat didn't happen today. 


Keith: Oh!


Jack: Oh, shit. 


Keith: Well, that's...yeah. 


Jack: That’s kind of frustrating, but...


Keith: Yeah.


Art: But they measured it yesterday, and the guy was like, “I'll come tomorrow or Thursday.” And then toward the end of the day I was like, it would really be better if it wasn't today at all. And I contacted the head contract, and he was like, “Oh, yeah, there was no...tomorrow was never possible.”


Jack: [laughs] It wasn't even on the cards.


Art: Like...yeah. [Keith laughs] What’s your counter made of?


Keith: Yeah, that’s just something we say. We just say tomorrow sometimes.


Jack: Yeah. Oh, tomorrow. Hi, Austin.


Art: It's, uh, terrazzo.


Jack: Oh, I like terrazzo. 


Keith: Hi, Austin.


Jack: I like a nice terrazzo.


Art: This is for our little bar counter. It's the same as the...


Keith: I’m googling terrazzo.


Jack: Is it...what color terrazzo are we talking about?


Art: Oh, I can send you a picture of it. 


Jack: Yes, please.


Art: It's the back— the base is, of course, just like a white, a cream-ish.


Jack: Mmm.


Art: And I would say it's mostly browns in the...


Jack: In the center. 


Art: The stuff, the sediment. 


Jack: It's very in, terrazzo. 


Art: Yeah.


Keith: Okay, that's nice. I like that. It took me a few...took me a few to get the spelling of it. 


Jack: Yeah. [laughs] (??? 3:06)


Keith: I wasn't expecting it to pull the pizza trick.


Art: Mmm.


Jack: Mmm. Mm-hmm.


Art: It's a pizza on your countertop. 


Keith: Yeah.


Jack: Mmm. Mm. How you doing, Austin?


Austin: How’s it going? I'm good. I just watched a...I'm not done it yet, but the GeoGuessr speedrun from today. 


Jack: Oh, I'm stoked. 


Austin: You should watch it. I'm gonna spoil a small thing, because I think it is the most...it is the most, like, illustrative, potent moment of a thing I've seen in perhaps years. Do you know what GeoGuessr is? Does everyone know what GeoGuessr is? 


Keith: I've seen it only as fake— it's almost exclusively fake memes people are doing of being too good at GeoGuessr.


Austin: Okay, well, so this is a speedrun where someone gets a perfect game of GeoGuessr—


Jack: Wow, shit.


Austin: —in 35 minutes or less. They play a mode where they're allowed to move, and so their version of the game— it's a popular version of the game. Okay, so GeoGuessr is a game in which you use Google Maps data to place yourself— to identify where you are. Puts you in a place. 


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: Random, though this player is playing with a curated subset because of the way the randomness breaks sometimes, which makes me skeptical, but it is what it is. If that's what the scene does, that's what the scene does. It's still competitive. Yeah, I'm with you. [chuckles] Anyway, um, the...one of the modes— I think the most casual mode is just you get to look around and then make a guess to see how close you are to the spot. But the mode that this player is speedrunning is a mode with...where they can move around. And so it's a lot of like, okay, looking for highway signs, looking for place signs, you know, looking for intersections, lining up the map.


Keith: And specifically being able to look at like features of signage. 


Austin: Yes.


Keith: And go, oh, this country uses this striped black and white...


Austin: Yes. A hundred percent. 


Keith: Yeah. That’s…


Austin: This is someone who immediately, in almost every instance, nails the country that they're in within a second or two. 


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: They're like, oh yeah, I'm in Malaysia, because blah.


Jack: Ha!


Austin: And so they do...they show the regular version of the game, then they start their run, and it's like an interesting one. I won't spoil it for you, Jack, 'cause i know you're gonna watch it. But the final one, the player immediately goes like, ah, fuck. Ah, shit. I'm in this particular suburb of this Nigerian city. And it's impossible because the road signs aren't always accurate, and there's lots of similar looking suburbs. And that's already like really interesting. What lifts this to just like immaculate status is the thing that's happening is...the thing that...he says there's a bunch of ways to know this. There's a flag, there's the language used, the signage, et cetera. But the thing that teed him off to it is that behind the Google car is a police car.


Jack: Huh.


Austin: And it has the blue light on the left, and that's a particular feature of northern Nigerian police cars. And the police car is not just behind the Google car, it's— he says, like, “It's here to protect us.” And at first, you're like, what the fuck do you mean it's here to protect us? And he means it's here to protect the Google car, from people who would interfere with Google's mapping of the planet and people who would say “don't map our neighborhood.” And the idea of this moment in time in which Google has decided it wants to make legible the entire world via camera, and as such, it's also going to pay for police protection in a part of the world—


Jack: The state.


Austin: —that has historically, yeah, exploited.


Keith: Jeez.


Austin: It's going to take advantage to its connection to the state, and then that is going to filter out into entertainment content for people watching—


Jack: Oh, it’s something, isn’t it?


Austin: —and raising money for Doctors Without Borders. 


Jack: Oh my god. [laughs] 


Austin: And the way that that ends up being translated to a wide audience is “they're here to protect us.” It's so fucking filled with...it's just so pregnant with the moment.


Jack: Just text comes pouring out of the screen.


Austin: Pouring out, a hund— this is a dissertation, right? Like, a hundred percent, this is the final turn of the dissertation someone will write within the next five years. And it just like shook me, like my whole body. Everything about, you know, data ethics. Everything about, you know, late capitalism. It's alright here. The, you know, the exploited world exploited once again by being turned into pure, you know, a virtual place for…


Jack: “And we got, uh, time for some donations.” 


Austin: For— not even tourism. Yeah. [laughs] It's not even actual...it's not even like, I’m gonna leisurely move through this space. It is, we've made identifying…


Jack: Play.


Austin: Yeah, it's not...it's super efficient play. It's unbelievable. I'm floored. Anyway.


Keith: And probably noticed as casually as being like, oh, the sign is a certain shade of orange, so we're here.


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: Yes, exactly. Exactly. A hundred percent.


Jack: There’s two other moments from this year’s AGDQ. Have you heard about Nintendogs and Styx, Austin? 


Austin: I have not, no.


Jack: Two separate LPs. So, quick one is that the Nintendogs run was briefly undone towards the end by a black labrador puppy that would not behave.


Austin: Oh my god. [Keith and Art laugh] 


Jack: A bad dog tried to take down the… [Jack and Austin chuckle] It went into a tunnel on a like doggy obstacle course and wouldn't come out. Also the...in the game Styx, which is a game by...oh, jesus, I want to say spiders, but I don't think it's...it might be Cyanide. It's about a goblin. Some of the level logic is physically laid out on flowcharts below the level, which meant that the speedrunner was able to go out of bounds and then physically trigger level stuff by walking on a flowchart on the floor [Austin laughs] to cause the level to...


Austin: That's incredible. 


Jack: (??? 8:58)


Austin: That's extremely good.


Keith: (???)


Art: Just before we get going any further, Jack, do you want to...do you want to tell us where it's coming? 


Jack: Football’s...football’s...football’s coming home, isn't it? 


Art: Yeah, football’s coming home.


Austin: Oh, football’s...the football’s coming home.


Jack: The football’s coming home. 


Keith: Oh, god.


Jack: Now, here’s the thing. It might have been a bit of a dodgy penalty, but I'm not a snitch. So.


Art: Yeah, mm-hmm. [Austin laughs] 


Jack: You know, the whistle was blown at the end of the game. I'm not gonna be out here litigating. 


Art: It’s over.


Jack: I’d do the same if the Danish had done the same. [hushed] I wouldn't do the same if the Danish had done the same. [Art, Jack, and Austin laugh] I’d be here saying, “Ah, that penalty wasn't right.” But yeah, it's really interesting. We're gonna get absolutely stomped in the final by the Italians, who…


Austin: It’s been decades. 


Jack: I mean, an Italian defense is...yeah.


Austin: Right? When's the last English win?


[0:09:54]


Jack: [typing] Uh, last English Euro win was...well, Google is now telling me it was this evening. We want 2:1 against Denmark. That’s not what I mean. [Art laughs] Last English Euro final win. [brief pause] I don't know if we've...oh, England at the UEFA championship...overall record...we've never— uh, we've never won. We've never won. We've only ever gotten to the semis before.


Austin: Oh, wow. So it really is— it's not coming home, ‘cause to suggest that it was coming home is to suggest it was there to begin with.


Jack: Yeah, there was a great interview with the Danish manager, I think, where he was asked, you know, “The English are saying ‘Football’s coming home, football’s coming home.’ Is it coming home?” and the Danish manager said, “Have you ever won? What does home mean?”


Austin: [laughs] Yeah. Exactly.


Art: But that started in the World Cup, right? This is a...


Jack: I mean, I think we say football’s coming home because we invented it. Right?


Art: Mmm. An audacious claim. [Jack laughs softly] 


Austin: I don't— 


Jack: Who invented football? Probably the Scots, right?


Austin: The Scots is my guess. When I think of association football. 


Jack: Football. 


Austin: Early history. I guess— okay. The actual answer is people been kickin’ balls forever ever.


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Forever ever ever.


Jack: Episkyros and cuju in Greece and China.


Austin: Yeah. Yes. Kemari? Is it kemari in Japan? What's the ball kicking one in Japan? I think it's kemari, but that’s more like hacky sack.


Jack: I mean, here’s the thing. You give people a ball, and it's time to play basically this game.


Keith: I'm just gonna say, this first goo— this cursory Google result. I haven't even clicked on the link, but the history origin invention of soccer, literally the sample text that it gives you is, “Soccer in ancient times: Some suggest [Austin chuckles] that the history of soccer dates back as far as 2500 BC. During this time, the Greeks, Egyptians, and Chinese all appear to have partaken in games involving a ball and feet. So yeah, pretty much. 


Austin: Yeah. Kick it over here. I'll try to stop you.


Jack: It’s an idea.


Austin: It’s very simple.


Keith: There’s not much to soccer.


Austin: Right.


Jack: Well, I like it flipped the other way, right? Which is that like, it is...it is a mode of play that is so compelling—


Austin: Yes.


Jack: —that all across the world—


Austin: Yes.


Jack: —at some point in history, everybody goes, “Ah! Ah! This!”


Austin: Yeah. This is it. Cuju or Ts'u-chü, I don't know the pronunciation here. There’s two different—


Jack: That fucking rules. 


Austin: This is it. “It is a competitive game that involves kicking a ball through an opening into a net as in modern day soccer.”


Keith: Yeah, that’s soccer. 


Austin: “The use of hands is not allowed.” That’s it.


Keith: Look at the ball that...look at that.


Austin: That’s fucking soccer.


Keith: I mean, I know this is just someone drew this, like recently, but…


Austin: That’s soccer. 


Keith: That’s soccer.


Austin: Do you have an image? You...where’s— 


Art: But you can’t be like...you can't say that like soccer started to exist when like the corner kick was invented, right?


Austin: No, right.


Art: That’s definitely not it, yeah.


Austin: No. No, because those are rules that change inside of any sport. You know what I mean? 


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: Basketball preexisted the three point line, in my opinion, right?


Jack: The, uh...yes. 


Art: Also literally.


Jack: This is a fantastic


Keith: You used to not be able to move with the ball. That's true, right? 


Austin: That is tr…


Keith: The original rules was...


Austin: Was that rugby? What is that? 


Jack: I mean, that’s netball. 


Austin: There is something.


Jack: You played—


Austin: There's...no, there is a...oh, it was basketball. Basketball was the one you're talking about.


Keith: Basketball, yeah. Yeah, that’s what I'm saying, basketball.


Austin: Yeah, yes, because you couldn’t dribble the ball, ‘cause that ball didn't bounce. It was just a heavy ball. 


Keith: Right, so, yeah. So, this was a running and passing game.


Jack: That’s so good.


Austin: Yeah. Yes. Correct. You could run, and then you could throw the ball.


Keith: And that’s basketball. 


Austin: And that's basketball. That's basketball.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: The game changed.


Jack: What a great invention, making it bouncy.


Austin: You can't tell me that the invention of instant replay hasn't shifted the game just as much as the invention of set pieces in soccer or, you know, whatever in basketball. I don’t— are they called set pieces in basketball?


Art: No.


Austin: What are they called? You know what I mean. It's a play, I guess.


Jack: Plays?


Art: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, but like, coming off of a timeout or a foul, where you like pass the ball in. We should— 


Art: Oh, I guess I've heard like set plays. 


Austin: Yeah.


Art: So I guess, yeah, maybe. You don't think— it's not like the same.


Keith: It’s— 


Austin: But it— it isn’t, because scoring is so different. But at the end of a game, it's very much the same. 


Art: Mmm.


Austin: Where it's like, if it's a close game where a single score will change the outcome, the way a team runs a play at the end...you know, the way in which over the past couple of weeks of basketball, we've seen Chris Paul throw it up to Ayton for an alley-oop to win a game or whatever. That's a set piece, in true— 


Art: Right, and they have the rules about how you need 0.7 seconds on the clock to attempt a shot and—


Austin: Right. Right.


Art: and 0.3 or whatever to tip it in, like…


Austin: Mm-hmm. Though— 


Art: That’s nonsense. That’s made up.


Austin: It’s not— it's nothing. It's completely made up. Yeah.


Keith: Why can't you get it at 0.1? What's wrong with that? That's...it hasn't gone off.


Art: If you have less than 0.3 seconds, you can only like, tip the ball. It's— there’s— 


Jack: Bullshit. [Austin laughs] 


Keith: But I've seen...I've seen movies. You take a shot, and the buzzer buzzes while it's still in the air.


Austin: No, that's fine. But then the— in other words…


Keith: Okay.


Art: That’s fine, yeah.


Keith: Okay.


Austin: If you have less than that on the clock, the ruling is it's not enough time to touch the ball and redirect it into the net. 


Keith: Got it. Got it. Like, if you lob it up from out of bounds, the clock starts...but the clock starts when you touch the ball, not when it goes in, right? Not when it's thrown. 


Art: Yeah, but by rule, you need a certain amount of time to catch and— 


Austin: That’s bullshit. That's bullshit! That's bullshit. 


Keith: Yeah.


Jack: I have just a couple of brief excerpts from the section “Medieval and Early Modern Europe.”


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Which is great, 'cause we start getting some really stupid quotes. “The early forms of football played in England, sometimes referred to as mob football, would be played in towns or between neighboring villages involving an unlimited number of players on opposing teams who would clash en masse.”


Keith: Wow.


Austin: Mmm.


Jack: So, sounds like we've made football worse over the years.


Keith: Battle Royale soccer. 


Jack: Yeah, Battle Royale soccer. “In 1314, Nicholas de Farndone, Lord Mayor of the City of London issued a decree banning football in the French used by the English upper classes at the time. A translation reads: [monotone] ‘Forasmuch as there is great noise in the city caused by hustling over large foot balls in the fields of the public [others laugh softly] from which many evils might arise which God forbid: we command and forbid on behalf of the king, on pain of imprisonment, such game to be used in the city in the future.’" Much like a— 


Keith: How fucking boring can you be?


Art: A great impression of this guy.


Keith: Yeah, good impression of the most boring guy in history. 


Austin: It continues, “This is the earliest reference to football.” [laughs] Incredible. [Keith laughs] 


Jack: What I love is “King Henry IV also presented one of the earliest documented uses of the English word ‘football’ in 1409, when he issued a proclamation forbidding the levying of money for ‘foteball.’” [Austin laughs] Spelled F-O-T-E-B-A-L-L.


Austin: Now listen, you motherfuckers. The tax money does not go to football. 


Jack: Foteball. 


Austin: No one get— 


Keith: It goes to the ships. We're trying to build all these ships. [Austin laughs] We can't be funding these large foot balls.


Austin: Shin guards. [laughs]


Keith: With all the noise.


Austin: Ahh. Alright.


Jack: In Florence, they played a game called historic kickball. Please continue, sorry. [laughs] 


Austin: No, no, I was just gonna start the game.


Art: [laughing] Historic kickball?


Austin: Historic kickball.


Art: You gotta be b— it's...it's a lot of hutzpah to name your game historic kickball.


Austin: Historic kickball. Yeah.


Jack: Historic. In 1609!


Keith: Do you think they said it at the time? 


Austin: Oh, oh, oh. Wait.


Keith: You think at the time they said it?


Austin: Wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait. Sorry. It is now called calcio storico, which means historic kickball. Probably at the time it was just kickball.


Jack: Oh, they didn’t call it at the time. 


Art: Oh.


Austin: Yeah. Yes.


Art: Right.


Austin: Yes.


Jack: Shit.


Austin: Yes.


Art: Well, let's start historic Friends at the Table.


Austin: Oh my god! 


Art: An actual play—


Austin: Wait, but wait, we should talk about— 


Art: Oh.


Austin: We should read this section. Calcio Fioriento: “In the 16th century, the city of Florence celebrated the period between Epiphany and Lent by playing a game which is now known as historical or historic kickball in the Piazza Santa Croce. The young aristocrats of the city would dress up in fine silk costumes—”


Jack: [chuckles] Sick.


Austin: “—and embroil themselves in a violent form of football. For example, calcio players could punch, shoulder charge, and kick opponents. Blows below the belt were allowed.” [laughs] 


Jack: [laughing] Were allowed.


Austin: “The game is said to have originated as a military training exercise.”


Art: I hear that they would eventually, uh, immigrate to Liverpool. That’s how… [Austin laughs] 


Jack: Mm-hmm. [chuckles] They moved it.


Austin: Uh huh. Oh my god,


Jack: Alec Meer, formerly of Rock Paper Shotgun and now at Larian, made a tweet the other day which I really liked, which was “If you make it to the semi final stage in the euros, and you make a substitution, you should be allowed to substitute any player from any team you have beaten.”


Austin: Mmm. [laughs] 


Jack: Which I think would be fantastic.


Austin: That's fun. That's like a Mutant League football style rule, in my opinion. 


Jack: Yeah. 


Austin: I love it.


Art: But they can't start the game. 


Austin: Correct.


Jack: No.


Art: Okay.


Austin: They have to sub in midway through, which means everyone has to be on hand. Everybody you've beaten has to be…


Art: Mmm.


Jack: [chuckles] Just the stadium filled.


Austin: There’s a third bench, or there's a third and fourth bench, for players from teams each side has beaten. Alright, we should do a…


Jack: God, what a good game.


Art: That’s a lot of record keeping. 


Austin: Yes, yes.


Jack: Yes.


Austin: We should do a podcast. Time.is up.


Keith: It's just starting to get a little cooler. It's been 95 all day, and my office doesn't get AC. 


Austin: Ugh, it’s miserable, dude. Yeah, no fun. 


Keith: No.


Austin: What am I doing? What am I...going to time.is. That's what I'm doing. Alright. We good to clap?


Jack: Mm-hmm.


Keith: Yeah.


Art: Yeah. 


Austin: Uh, let's do 30.


[pause, then clap]


[musical transition: 0:19:27]


Austin: Um.


Jack: You know what I like? What's the Canadian...it's like curd, it's like curds, cheese curds. What’s that shit called? Poutine! I like that. 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Jack: S’alright, to have in a bar.


Sylvia: People are really going nuts with it. 


Jack: Oh, really? Hi, Keith. 


Sylvia: Oh, I just think of like...there's like a chain here called like Smoke’s Poutinerie, and they have like a bunch of like different types of poutine you can get, with like different...


Jack: Oh. Is there not just kind of one type? Which is cheese and gravy?


Sylvia: I mean, that...that is what you'd think. [Austin makes amused sound] But like...


Keith: What, you got buffalo poutine? 


Austin: I'm sure there’s all sorts.


Sylvia: Yeah, there’s…


Keith: Ooh.


Sylvia: I'm looking it up. I know that they had like a pulled pork one.


Austin: Sure.


Sylvia: Back when I still ate pork, and that used to fucking...it was good, but it would also like kill you for like…


Jack: Oh, sure.


Sylvia: Three days. They do have like...I do like their vegetarian one, like just the like fake— or not fake gravy. [chuckles] [Jack laughs] It's still really gravy. But like...the like…


Keith: Vegetable gravy?


Sylvia: Yeah, the like, um...I think it's vegan cheese? I don't remember, though. But like yeah, like for example, there's like a Korean one, which is like flat iron steak, Korean barbecue, sambal, and green onions.


Jack: Holy lord.


Austin: That’s a lot.


Keith: Sounds really good though.


Austin: It sounds good. I— 


Sylvia: Oh, I bet it's good. But also like, I don't know. I'm gonna link one, and I'm not like… [Jack chuckles] 


Keith: Being not in Canada, the only way you can get poutine is by getting like normal style poutine. There's not a big enough market for poutine that you can do offshoot poutines. 


Sylvia: I— 


Keith: But there is a...there is a place that all they do is different kinds of french fries. 


Sylvia: Yeah. 


Jack: Huh.


Keith: Nearby, and they have a really good poutine.


Sylvia: I love the genre of poutine that's just poutine but they toss some extra shit on it, as evidenced by the tater tot poutine.


Austin: By the— right, the tater tot, which is like, there's already potato. This is already a potato dish.


Sylvia: I know! 


Austin: So.


Sylvia: It’s just, do you want a slightly different texture? 


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Does… [sighs] 


Austin: There was one of these...there was one of these in London, Ontario near where I went...like downtown. 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: I know that spot. Poutine is too messy for me. This makes me feel like a baby, but it's so...


Sylvia: No, that's legit. Like, that’s...


Austin: It’s so messy.


Jack: It is. There's a lot going on, right?


Keith: You not just eat it with a fork?


Austin: I don’t...still too messy.


Sylvia: Yeah, that's what I do. But it's still like, a lot.


Austin: I don't like seeing it. Like… [chuckles] 


Keith: Okay, fair. 


Sylvia: That’s fair.


Austin: It’s not even a...it’s not like a...


Jack: What color is...I might be misremembering.


Keith: Ooh, I love this. I love the start of this. 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Keith: This thing could go anywhere.


Sylvia: Really excited.


Jack: What color is Nardwaur’s hat? And is it the same as this poutine box? [Keith laughs] 


Sylvia: I think it is the same sort of plaid situation. But I gotta look...


Austin: Is this guy...is, uh...smoke?


Jack: Smoke?


Austin: Is Smoke related to Nardwaur?


Jack: Doot doodly doot doo. Smoke.


Sylvia: I used to— so, I used to think that…‘cause like...so, I was in high school, like one of the things that people would do is just they'd get stickers from this place of the guy's face and put it on like shit that they had. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Dre: Mm-hmm. 


Sylvia: And like, I saw it in like college too, like on people's laptops and stuff. And I just thought it was fucking Nardwaur. And then I...


Jack: Mmm. Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: I was like, no, it's just this restaurant I've never eaten at. [chuckles] 


Jack: Nardwaur’s hat is a different red and black tartan. 


Austin: Mmm.


Sylvia: Yeah. It's a little different. 


Jack: It has a...


Sylvia: This guy's just trying to get the business of naive, uninformed people like me.


Austin: Yeah. Who want to support Nardwaur. [Jack and Austin laugh] 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Jack: Shoutout to Nardwaur, honestly.


Austin: How old do we think Nardwaur is?


Sylvia: Oh, he’s like…


Keith: 44.


Jack: Austin, I just went down this road.


Keith: That's my guess. I barely know Nardwaur, but I'm guessing 44.


Sylvia: I was thinking like, maybe, like late— like a little older than that, like pushing 50 maybe. I feel like he's been around forever.


Austin: Any other guesses, here? Jack?


Jack: I just...I just looked it up before you said “How old do you think Nardwaur is?” so I’m out.


Austin: I see. Dre, do you know who Nardwaur is? Or do you…


Dre: I have no fucking idea who we are talking about.


Keith: I was in...Dre, I was in your boat only about a year ago—


Austin: Oh, wow.


Sylvia: Wow.


Keith: —so I can do my best to explain to you who Nard— yeah, I barely— I almost don’t know still.


Austin: Keith, you understand. I feel like Nardwaur is such a Keith type of person.


Dre: Ohh. I almost got the spelling on the first time, so I feel pretty good about that. 


Keith: So, my best...barely knowing who he is, [Jack chuckles] my description of Nardwaur is a music weirdo who annoys slash embarrasses [Sylvia and Jack laugh] people with how much he knows about them on camera.


Jack: That’s pretty close, basically.


Dre: Okay.


Sylvia: Yeah, pretty much. 


Austin: Yeah. 


Dre: Alright. 


Sylvia: I remember— like, there was a— I think one of the more famous clips people might know was from a few years back when he interviewed Lil Uzi Vert. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: Who just ran away in the middle of it.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: Because he knew too much. [Austin laughs softly] 


Dre: Okay.


Sylvia: I remember that getting a lot of play for a bit.


Jack: It was like, how do you do this? 


Sylvia: Yeah. I remember people making a lot of jokes about that one for a while. 


Dre: So he’s like— 


Keith: He gives a lot of gifts.


Dre: Oh.


Austin: Yeah, he’s a big...yeah, that's true. Yes.


Dre: Okay. 


Jack: Yeah, like the first magazine.


Dre: So he's like if you took the Hot Ones guy and then Tom Green and just made that into a single person. 


Austin: That's not bad. That's not a bad comparison.


Sylvia: Yeah. 


Keith: That's not...no, that’s not bad.


Dre: Okay. Alright.


Jack: I heard you say Tom Green, and my brain heard Thom Yorke from… [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: Different. No. [Keith laughs] 


Jack: I would like to see that person.


Dre: I mean, they’re both pretty high caliber artists, Jack. 


Jack: [laughs] Here’s a great quote from Nardwaur’s Wikipedia page: “On another occasion, Nardwaur persistently asked faith healer Ernest Angley if there was a cure for ‘the summertime blues,’ [Dre laughs] to which Angley angrily replied, quote, ‘Oh, I wish you would shut up, man. [Sylvia laughs] You know you're not even funny. You're lucky God don't strike you dead.’” [Sylvia and Keith laugh] 


Dre: Dang.


Jack: It’s just excessive.


Austin: Sorry, I'm now watching this Lil Uzi Vert conversation, and… [laughs] The thing that happens is Nardwaul gives him like a really nice poster of, uh, House of 100 corpses— or 1000 corpses poster, the Rob Zombie movie.


Keith: Mmm.


Austin: And Lil Uzi Vert is just like, “Alright, listen, how do you know this? [all laugh] Why’d you pull this out?” And he says, “You know what, I'm glad I'm a good guy. Because if I wasn't, [Sylvia and Jack laugh] if I was under investigation, I'd be scared right now.” [laughs] 


Sylvia: God.


Austin: Like, apparently not even his friends know how much he likes Rob Zombie and this movie. And yeah, then he runs away. It's very good.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Ah. I had not seen that.


Jack: This is like Pusha T has him on speed dial.


Austin: God. [Sylvia laughs] Yeah. Mm-hmm. It's so funny. He means well. I think he— like, I think he genuinely is like a…


Jack: He loves music, and he loves the people he’s talking to.


Austin: He loves— yeah. 


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: Yes. Yes.


Jack: Unless he’s clearly trying to make fun of them.


Keith: But I do think he's being weird— he's being weird on purpose, though.


Austin: Yeah…


Keith: He’s not...


Sylvia: He’s definitely doing a bit.


Austin: I mind this bit less than other sorts of…


(??? 26:46)


Austin: There's other sorts of public comedy stuff—


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: —that I don't vibe with as much, when it's just like man on the street style stuff. 


Jack: Yeah.


Dre: Mmm.


Keith: Yeah. 


Austin: A celebrity is a celebrity. And like…


Sylvia: Yeah.


Keith: Right. This is why...this is why your all time favorite show is Punked.


Austin: This is why I love Punked but hate, um…


Sylvia: God.


Austin: Eichner on the Street, for instance.


Sylvia: I fucking hate Billy Eichner


Jack: I was gonna say “name a woman for ten dollars” or whatever. Screw that guy!


Keith: Who the fuck is Eichner on the Street? 


Austin: Billy Eichner? 


Jack: Billy Eichner. He just goes out on the street.


Keith: Oh, Billy Eichner. Okay, okay. Right.


Austin: Yeah, Eichner on the Street is the show, or is the skit. I don't know what it's...whatever.


Dre: Mmm.


Keith: Got it. 


Sylvia: It was like a webshow for...


Jack: How do you feel about John Oliver?


Keith: I don't mind that, ‘cause it's so brief.


Austin: I— ruin my fucking day. Give me the route of the wrongest energy. I'm on my way to work, or the dentist, and you're going to ask me like what the capital of the state I'm in is? You don't know— you don't know what my day is. I'm not a celebrity. I'm not a millionaire. 


Dre: True. Yep, I agree. 


Jack: [sternly] Billy. 


Austin: Billy. 


Jack: You little worm.


Austin: Billy’s probably not a millionaire either. I don't know. Maybe Billy is a— I don't know.


Jack: Oh, I bet Billy Eichner’s a fucking millionaire. Billy Eichner net worth. Give me just a second.


Sylvia: He was in a fucking— The Lion King. Billy Eichner is a millionaire.


Austin: Oh, I didn’t know he was in The Lion— he’s worth five mil. Okay. He’s worth five million.


Jack: Five million.


Keith:  You know, he has not been a name that people have known— his fucking show was on truTV. 


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: I mean.


Dre: I do wonder what those Parks and Rec residuals are, you know?


Austin: April 2021, eight mil. He’s up to eight mil now, per the internet.


Dre: Okay, yeah.


Austin: Which I don't trust, but. Anyway. I'm in the wrong Roll20.


Keith: 
Yeah. If he's actually a millionaire, I think he's a very recent millionaire.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Sylvia: Austin, I was also in the wrong Roll20— 


Austin: Okay, good!


Sylvia: —but I assumed you just had a different tab open.


Jack: Are you in Sangfielle?


Keith: Oh.


Austin: No.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Nope, wrong one.


Keith: Oh, I just didn't...I did halfway. I went to Roll20 but didn't click on the thing.


Sylvia: I'll be just one sec.


Jack: The closest I've seen to Nardwaur breaking character is where he does one of those things where he, uh, just...he waits for them to finish his catchphrase. And he just waited for a full 40 seconds, and then when it became clear that the other person just wasn't gonna do it, he just looked at them and smiled and shook their hand and said, “That was really great. Thanks so much for talking to me.” [Austin laughs] 


Dre: Oh, wait, what's his catchphrase?


Jack: He says “Doot doodly doot doo.” Well, his catchphrase is “Keep on rockin’ in the free world.”


Dre: Oh, “doot, doo!”


Jack: Right. You see, you'd be fine, Dre. 


Austin: Right.


Dre: Yeah. 


Jack: But other people...no.


Dre: Yeah. Well, or maybe they don't want to.


Keith: His catchphrase is trying to get a call and response for shave and a haircut?


Austin: Yeah…


Sylvia: Yeah.


Keith: That's extremely weird. [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: I wonder if it… [Dre and Jack laugh] 


Dre: Uh huh?


Austin: What if you just don't know? 


Dre: Yeah.


Jack: You’re fucked, Austin. 


Keith: Who doesn't know?


Austin: I guess you're fucked.


Dre: People. People don't know.


Austin: Gen Z-ers?


Keith: It might be one of the most universal musical ideas on earth.


Austin: Do you think— does Gen Z know shave and a haircut?


Sylvia: I…


Dre: Listen. 


Austin: [hums “shave and a haircut”] 


Dre: Keith, this is how we get bad SAT questions.


Jack: [finishing for Austin] Dun dun.


Keith: I am not trying to write an SAT question. 


(??? 29:30)


Keith: I'm just trying to interview...Daniel Johnston. [Austin laughs] 


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Well, you're gonna have some trouble there, pal! [Sylvia laughs] 


Keith: Well, it was in the...it was in the past.


Austin: Okay. 


Keith: And it was a— 


Jack: [laughs] I’m an occultist. 


Keith: I was just thinking about it, because it was another time where he sort of wasn't in character.


Austin: God.


[end music plays]