Clapcast 80: Cracker Instincts
Transcriber: logan (texaschip)
Part 1        1
Part 2 - 07:13        8
Part 3 - 15:52        16
Part 1
Sylvia: Okay I’m recording.
Jack: Uh, Audacity has added ‘beats’ and ‘tempo’ now.
Sylvia: Ohh. They’re coming for Ableton.
Jack: They are coming for Ableton. And they won’t be able to, because…
Sylvia: No!
Jack: I mean, they, Ableton has a head start. But it is interesting to know I’m currently recording at 120 BPM in 4/4. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Okay, we’re not -- hold on -- let’s change this time signature. Let’s do a prog podcast, yeah. 
Jack: Yeah yeah yeah. God, Friends at the Table fully is --
Keith: Yeah, can we do 7/8?
Jack: Can we do 7/8. See, 7/8 is lovely because 7/8 is just a bar of three, and a bar of four. Or, a bar of four and a bar of three, depending on how you feel about it. As soon as I realized that I could just subdivide time signatures into other friendlier…it would be eaten by other, friendlier time signatures, I was like ‘ah this is great.’
Keith: Five is just two and three?
Sylvia: When Toast and I were recording our demos recently, um, [Jack exclaims], yeah I’m very excited. 
Dre: [overlapping] Yeah!
Jack: I’ve already got my Emo Boys Kissing shirt, it’s great, I got the early merch drop.
Dre: Oh fuck! I want one of those.
Sylvia: Um, but there was a moment we were talking about how like, we were trying to time things out and we were like “what is time signatures?” and we both just like, shrugged at each other, [Jack: Yeah!] like I dont…I don’t know! We never used - ‘cause, they’re learning how to use drums, like they’re new at drumming, so we never thought to use a clicker or anything.
Jack: Yeah, just feel it!
Sylvia: It’s working out!
Keith: I’m very excited to get for Christmas this year, I think I’m gonna get one of those like, multi-pad drum things that you, it’s like a…
Jack: [overlapping] Oh, those things are so much fun.
Sylvia: Oh those are fucking sick!
Keith: It’s like a block of 9 pads and it’s just like, ‘this is drums!’
Sylvia: Yeah yeah yeah!
Keith: And I’ve wanted one of those for years.
Sylvia: The like, push-button ones of the ones you use drumsticks on?
Keith: Uh, drumsticks.
Sylvia: Oh, okay cool! That’s sick. I wasn’t sure if you meant like a MIDI controller or something.
Keith: I have the heart of a drummer, I’ve wanted to drum my whole life, but my mom wouldn’t get me drums when I was a kid. It’s not why I play the guitar, I wanted to do both, and then I finally got some -- and drums are so expensive!
Sylvia: Drums are so expensive. 
My friend gave me some free drums and then like, three months later I had to move from the house [Jack: No!] into an apartment and you -- I just can’t play drums here, so.
Jack: Now that I live for the first time in like, a single-family home, I can’t afford a drum set but what I think I probably could afford is a snare.
Sylvia: [overlapping] Oh! Oh, that would be fun.
Jack: And because I overuse the snare anyway in my drum programming, it might just be good to get a live snare and just [chuckling] program the rest of it.
Keith: Around the snare?
Jack: Yeah!
Sylvia: You can do a lot with just a snare, too.
Jack: Yeah, I could. I could. I don’t really need a kick, because, you know, they build synthesizers for that stuff, but I think just having a snare would be really good…
Keith: Hey but, just a snare and a kick, that’s, I mean, that’s pretty close to all you need!
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Just a snare and a kick and then one ride cymbal.
Keith: [overlapping] Yeah yeah, just one cymbal. You can get a free cymbal online, and…
Jack: I basically got a free trombone. Well no, the trombone was $70, but that's, you know.
Keith: That's so close to free in trombone terms. 
Jack: In trombone language, yeah. 
Sylvia: Yeah, when you convert it.
Jack: So here’s something that’s fucked up, and then we should get started, [Sylvia and Keith: Yeah.] is trumpets and cornets. They’re ten a penny, you can get them online for like $200 or whatever. $100. They won’t be great, but they're not like, you know. And a flugelhorn, despite having a really stupid name, is like a trumpet with the silkiest, gentlest, sweetest sound on the planet. And one of those, cheapest, costs $1,500. It's like they said, ‘you want a nice sounding one? Okay, pony up, buddy!’ 
Keith: Hey, I'm seeing some flugelhorns on eBay for only a few hundred bucks. 
Jack: I was looking on eBay, it’s weird when eBay is the only place that is selling cheap flugelhorns. 
Keith: A B-flat, nickel flugelhorn, $140. B-flat, that's exactly what you want for a flugelhorn! 
Jack: That's what I've heard. 
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: [chuckling] I have no idea. Should we clap for our souls and our spirits?
Keith: [excitedly] Speaking of the flugelhorn, I think if there's a... I wrote down all the music that I really wanted to talk about and I think there's a flugelhorn in one of them. 
Jack: We’re not even in the...After your um, in the opening episode, there's a really funny bit where, after the credits, Keith, there's that blooper of you trying to say the opening…[Keith laughs]…like six times. Yeah. I don't think we should have bloopers every time, but you suddenly realizing excitedly that maybe the flugelhorn is relevant, I don’t know, that's good stuff. 
Keith: It is good. And since then, I haven’t messed up the intro once, I don't think. I think that's my one, I got it all out of my system that one time. 
Jack: You’ve got it in your spirit and your soul.
Sylvia: Yeah. You're a professional. 
Jack: Okay! Well, clap? 
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: What if we all just clap when the spirit moves us, we do it, just…[laughing]
Sylvia: That might make things worse somehow. 
Keith: Can the spirit move us at the count of three all at once? 
Jack: Alright, let's see how it goes! 
Keith: Okay, 3, 2, 1. [All clap]
Jack: I was moved.
Keith: I was moved too. It worked. 
Sylvia: Yeah same. 
Keith: Wow. That worked really well to move us. That must be why people do that. 
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Got some green tea too…[overlapping]
Sylvia: Feeling good about the energy tonight. 
Keith: Yeah. Well, I got mostly a good night's sleep last night, which has been rare on Thursdays for some reason. 
Jack: You got all of Dre’s sleep. Sorry Dre!
Keith: Yeah, sorry Dre. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: Oh no…
Dre: That's okay. I have a Mountain Dew with me. I'm ready to go. 
Jack: Whoa! Sick!
Sylvia: I do have an 8PM coffee because I make terrible decisions. 
Dre: [overlapping] Hell yeah bro!
Keith: Oh, I drink 8PM coffee almost every day. 
Jack: What is wrong with y’all?
Dre: This is abnormal for me, I feel like I should point out. 
Keith: I'm drinking a green tea from Simao, and it’s curled up…
Sylvia: Oh, when you said you had green tea I thought you said you had creatine. 
Dre: Hell yeah!
Keith: No, I don’t have creatine, I have green tea. 
Sylvia: Okay very different, very different. [overlapping]
Dre: Get fuckin’ ripped.
Keith: It’s…they’re curled up like little snails, they’re very cute. It's rare to see a tea that's cute, but this is a cute tea. 
Jack: Oh, lovely. 
Sylvia: Ooh… 
And I've got a Red Bull if it gets too hot in here, I can cool down with a Red Bull. 
Dre: Jesus christ Keith.
Sylvia: I’m shaking your hand, Keith. 
Jack: I have a chamomile tea. 
Sylvia: Nice!
Keith: Green tea is great ‘cause it definitely has the most caffeine, but it also has the most other stuff. So, whenever I drink it, I just feel very good. This is not caffeine the way the coffee is caffeine or the way Red Bull is caffeine. 
Sylvia: See, I'm coming off of energy drinks, so coffee caffeine is way like, this is baby shit to me. [Jack laughs] 
Dre: Yeah, for sure. 
Sylvia: It’s out of my system in like a couple hours, you know? 
Keith: It's clean, it's cleaner. 
Sylvia: It's cleaner! 
Keith: And I don't mean like, oh there’s chemicals in it, of course there’s chemicals in it. 
Sylvia: No.
Keith: But I mean like, the feeling is cleaner. 
Sylvia: Yeah!
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Yeah. 
[transition jingle plays]
Part 2 - 07:13
Art: Oh, so the thing I learned this week is how tortillas are sold. 
Ali: Oh, that's right. 
Austin: How are they sold? 
Art: So like, let's assume that you are the manager of a Target. And you're like, I want to sell Mission tortillas and Mission tortilla chips in my Target. 
Austin: Sure.
Art: Which I think makes sense, right? That's a brand with a fine reputation. Now what I thought would happen here, and maybe you’re ahead of me here, was you just like, contact someone who works at Mission Tortillas, and be like… 
Keith: Oh, we're learning about the tortillas. 
Art: …Five cases of tortillas, please. But that's not right.
Austin: Oh. Why…wh… 
Art: People own routes with the Mission Tortilla company where they can then sell tortillas along that…
Ali: Oh.
Austin: That's most things. Coca-Cola works this way too. 
Art: Really?
Austin: [overlapping] My dad used to sell Coca-Cola in this way. This is… 
Keith: I guess I don't understand how this works. 
Austin: So you don't like, call the company and say ‘yeah, we’d like 12 cases.’ You got a rep who owns your district. And you have to work with that rep. [overlapping]
Ali: Oh, sure sure sure. 
Keith: Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah. Root beer, or, a lot of stuff is the same way. 
Austin: Foodstuff. 
Keith: Foodstuff, yeah. When I worked at restaurants, we were always getting visits from the Red Bull girls. 
Art: But I assume those people work for Red Bull. 
Austin: Well they do. 
Keith: Yeah. they do but it’s...
Austin: And you’re saying tortillas, they don't?
Art: Well, I'm saying on Facebook Marketplace, someone was trying to sell their Mission Tortilla route, for Burbank, California. 
Keith: [overlapping] So it’s like having season tickets.
Austin: Oh, I see what you’re saying. They have…right. Okay, I see. So it’s like having a liquor license, or like having the account. That’s interesting.
Ali: Well, it’s like franchising but for being a provider, right?
Austin: That makes sense. 
Keith: So they sublet. They sublet their tortillas. 
Austin: That’s interesting.
Art: Yeah, in a like sort of strange, y’know, bought-in middle man. 
Keith: Yeah. There's a couple good places to get tortillas in Providence but a place down the street from me opened up that has the best tacos that I've ever had in my life. 
Jack: That's great. 
Keith: With homemade tortillas. Which is great because most places, even the good places are selling, you know, packaged tortillas, like corn tortillas, that they don't do anything to, it's just like raw corn tortillas out of the bag. [Jack: Oh no.] And those are miserable and inedible. 
Jack: Yeah, you don't want to be doing that.
Keith: Terrible. 
Art: If I thought I was remotely capable of doing the work of being a tortilla salesman… Keith: You could do it. You could nixtamalize. 
Austin: Are you kidding me? You would crush it. 
Keith: You would crush it, you would crush a nixtamalization! 
Art: But like…[laughing] I don't think it’s a very good product. 
Jack: Oh, I see. [overlapping]
Keith: Corn tortillas? 
Art: Mission Tortillas.
Austin: Alright, you're losing me. Maybe you wouldn't do so well at this. I thought you were going to be great, but now I'm hearing what you're saying… 
Art: I mean, it's fine for like, Target or whatever, but they’re also like, you sell to all these restaurants… 
Jack: [laughing] ‘It’s fine for Target or whatever’ is the big slogan. 
Art: Well, it's fine for like, you to eat in your home. 
Jack: Sure. 
Art: But they're like, you sell it to restaurants! But if you're a restaurant in Los Angeles just buying in Mission tortillas? You deserve to do badly at business. 
Ali: Mmm.
Austin: Right.
Jack Yeah, there are better options available for you.
Austin: Do you -- I need to ask this legally now. Do you work for a competing tortilla company and you're using our airwaves…[Art laughs, overlapping]
Keith: Oh, is this stealth marketing? This is like negative…once a week you’re gonna bash one new tortilla brand.
Art: I do have like six bags of tortillas in my freezer because Jessica has her mom bring them to us when she comes to visit. 
Austin: Oh wow…
Art: So for Christmas, she brought us a freezer full of tortillas. 
Jack: That's great. 
Keith: I didn't realize that we were talking about some shitty store brand for the first part. 
Jack: Oh, you thought we were talking about like, a sort of a distributor of good tortillas.
Keith: When Art was talking about the weird middleman thing, I was like, surely this is something that's worth a confusing process to handle. [Ali: Mm, mhm.] Not the exact shitty tortillas that I avoid at the places near me that have like, you know, really nice meat, but a horrible tortilla. 
Art: No. I will say though, this comes with the truck, I believe. 
Jack: Huh. 
Art: So frankly, maybe the whole thing is worth it just for the truck. There’s probably limits on what you can and can't do with that truck, but…
Austin: I bet you could do donuts.
Jack: You could do donuts in any truck, Austin. [overlapping]
Art: Also, the fact that it was on Facebook Marketplace there’s also the chance that this is just a scam. 
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. Uh huh.
Keith: You know what I've been seeing for the past six months on Facebook Marketplace is those like, Japanese micro-trucks. 
Jack: Oh, Kei trucks. 
Keith: Yeah, that you can only import once you’re 25 years old because they literally have too good miles per gallon to be sold in America, it's illegal to import trucks that actually work well. And they're like, not that expensive [Austin: What are these? I don’t know these…] and I'm only a year or two off from needing a new car I think.  
Jack: They’re so good.
Austin: [overlapping] Oh I see, I see, these little mini trucks? These are great. 
Keith: I might get one of these things. These are, yeah yeah, the uh, Honda Acty.
Austin: Yeah this is Keith-coded to me. [Ali and Art laugh]
Keith: Yeah, it is. Yeah. 
Jack: And they just bop around. They’re sturdy little guys. [overlapping]
Keith: They just bop right around. Yeah. 
Austin: Yeah I love it.
Jack: Could knock ‘em over with a feather. 
Keith: They got cassette players in there, I've got a closet full of cassette tapes to listen to. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Sorry, this is the guard Aria was talking to before. [Jack and Ali laugh] 
Jack: Yeah, alright. Um, well, back to the chaos! 
Keith: It’s pronounced ‘Chaos.’ [pronounced “chows”] [everyone laughs]
Austin: It makes you think, doesn’t it?
Jack: Sonic fans always talk about this thing, [Austin: Chaos?!] which I've understood now is called Chaos, the Chaos Garden. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Art: Mhm.
Jack: But for a long time I read it as the chaos [pronounced normally] garden, and I had-- I genuinely couldn’t-- [overlapping]
Austin: Well there is Chaos [pronounced normally, but as a proper noun]. Chaos is a different character in that game.
Keith: Yeah. Chaos is the guardian of the Chaos. 
Austin: Right. 
Jack: I couldn't -- I couldn't think for one second, I couldn't conceive of what a chaos garden in Sonic the Hedgehog that was like, a desired minigame would possibly be. But it's just about having little guys, right? It's sort of like Animal Crossing for little guys?
Keith: Well I’ll tell you this, there’s a heaven and a hell in it. [overlapping]
Jack: Is there really? 
Austin: There’s a heaven and a hell, yeah.
Keith: There really is a heaven and a hell, yeah. 
Jack: Okay! 
Art: Um. [Ali laughs] But yeah, it's just a place where your little guys live. 
Keith: Yeah, you make them race and you can feed them animal crystals to turn them into half-racoons, half-birds.
Jack: Who’s the Sonic guy that Ali really likes?
Ali: Uh, Big the Cat. 
Jack: Does he live there?
Ali and Art: No. [overlapping]
Jack: No, he’s out doing other stuff. 
Ali: That’s his old hood though.
Jack: Oh…
Keith: Can he go there? Yeah, he can go there though. 
Austin: Big the Cat can go wherever. [overlapping]
Art: Yeah, where can’t he go? 
Jack: Is it a real place or is it on another realm? 
Keith: It's real. In Sonic Adventure 1, it's a room in a hotel. 
Jack: [laughing] Oh, I see. 
Austin: Yeah, it's in the Cerulean. They got this here. [Keith laughs]
Jack: So you're using the word garden to mean almost like crèche or something. You know, in that any kind of building could have a garden… [overlapping]
Austin: That’s actually right. It is kind of a crèche. It is kind of a Chao crèche.
Keith: In Sonic Adventure 2, it is like a realm that you go to from the menu, but in Sonic Adventure 1, one of them is in the forest and one of them is in a hotel. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Jack: Excellent. 
Keith: I'm gonna, I'm just gonna link a picture of the heaven and hell Chaos. 
Jack: I've never played a Sonic the Hedgehog game. Oh! Look at him. 
Art: Yeah, there they are. And on the Dreamcast games, you could bring your Chaos with you on your memory card to play little games with them on the go. 
Austin: This is true.
Ali: Ohhh, that’s true…
Jack: Oh, the card had a little screen? 
The entire table minus Jack: Yeah, the VMU! 
Jack: Was that not really inefficient? 
Austin: It was really cool.
Keith: It was really awesome!
Art: Hey, shut up! [Ali laughs]
Jack: [laughing] Okay I see.
Austin: You’ve never seen a VMU…
Jack: I don't think so. 
Keith: It's like, what if your memory card was a little Game Boy? 
Jack: Oh, my god. Whoa! 
Keith: [shouting] It is the coolest thing ever! 
Austin: Yeah. It’s the coolest thing that’s ever existed, Jack. 
Part 3 - 15:52
Jack: I have four salt and vinegar chips. 
Ali: Yummy. I had a spoonful of peanut butter. 
Jack: Oh, yummy. I had peanut butter on toast for breakfast. 
Ali: Yummy! 
Jack: I go through peanut butter like it is going out of fashion. A big peanut butter household I think. 
Ali: Oh, we -- aw, we're excluding Sylvi. [laughs]
Jack: Sylvi! What? 
Ali: Oh I thought -- is Sylvi here? 
Jack: I don't think so. 
Ali: Oh, okay. I thought Sylvi was the one who said hi. So I was like, oh, Sylvi said hello and now we're having this big conversation about peanut butter.
Jack: About peanut butter. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Hi.
Jack: Hi Janine! What's your view on peanut butter? 
Janine: I go through phases. 
Jack and Ali: Mmm.
Janine: I like a dark roast peanut butter a little more than a normal peanut butter though.
Ali: Yummy.
Janine: I had two Toppables crackers.
Ali: Yummy… 
Jack: What did you top them with? 
Janine: Nothing. 
Jack: Oh, just crackers. 
Janine: Yeah. But they're called Toppables. 
Ali: Wait, Toppables? I don’t know what this is…
Janine: Toppables is what…it's club crackers. 
Ali: I like this box, yeah…
Janine: I don't know why they're not called that here. But they are just, they're called Toppables here. For some reason. 
Ali: Alright…
Jack: And in French they’re called ‘Tartinable Craquelins’?
Janine: Oh yeah, that means like, you can put stuff on them. 
Jack: What does ‘craquelin’ mean? 
Janine: Tartinable is like…oh, craquelin is like cracker. Um, Tartinable is like uh... You know, things, you would consider things like hummus or whatever. 
Jack: Oh, sure. It does say ‘Transforment de savoureuses garnitures en collations extraordinaires.’ And I haven’t studied French for a long time, but I can tell you exactly what that means. Every word there helps me out. 
Janine: Garnitures is garnishes…
Keith: You talking about microfiche? It means small card. 
Jack: [laughing] No, we’re not talking about microfiche.
Janine: Garnitures is garnishes, co…what was the other one?
Jack: [French] Collation? 
Janine: Collation, I think means like, snacks? So I don't know… I don’t think that it’s something you could put snacks on it, but I wonder if it's like garnishes and then like, little bits of meat and stuff.
Jack: I think that's what it's saying, yeah. Yeah, they do look pretty good.
Ali: It's interesting that Americans wouldn't know what to do with this cracker. 
Jack: [laughs] What's it called in America? 
Ali: Club. 
Art: I think I could figure out any cracker. I don't want to seem arrogant. [overlapping]
Ali: Well Canada’s over here like, ‘have you thought about putting toppings on it?’ [wheezes]
Art: Well I mean, every one is doing that. Every cracker is like… [overlapping]
Janine: The American one is just like… ‘you wanna go to the golf course that excludes people?’ [Jack laughs]
Ali: Mhm.
Art: Yeah. Speaking of French things…
Dre: Why are we talking about Augusta? What's happening? 
Art: Crackers and their exclusivity. 
Dre: Oh okay.
Art:  But speaking of French things, did people see the Joker news from yesterday? 
Ali and Dre: No?  
Jack: The last news I heard about Joker is that it is going to be a jukebox musical? And they announced the first… [overlapping] 
Ali: Oh yeah. 
Art: Yes. A 15 song jukebox musical? 
Keith: Excuse me? 
Art: So I guess likely, yeah, kind of.
Keith: I don’t think there's a good jukebox musical. 
Janine: I guess it's like Moulin Rouge. 
Art: Sure, there are lots of jukebox musicals to pick… [overlapping] 
Dre: Who’s playing the Joker? [Jack: Uh, Joaquin Phoenix.] Oh okay, so this is like a sequel?
Art: Joaquin Phoenix. And his lady Joker, Lady Gaga.
Keith: So they've, they've noticed the Gary Glitter scene, which…
Janine: What? 
Keith: …I can't believe that they included in that movie because of who Gary Glitter is. The [humming “Rock And Roll” by Gary Glitter] and he’s going down the stairs, and they're like, we can make a whole movie out of this. That’s I think what is going on.
Jack: I think…So from my perspective I think that a Joker movie should be in almost every respect, um, a bad idea. And you're not doing it right unless you're taking extremely tasteless bizarre swings as often as possible. And so when they said we're making a jukebox musical starring Joaquin Phoenix and Lady Gaga and it's the sequel to the extremely annoying movie Joker, I was sort of like, best possible outcome!
Keith: Huh. I can see the angle on that. I just think it will end up being a really unenjoyable movie. 
Jack: Oh yeah, I have no horse in this race. Other than I'm interested in, like a huge amount of money being poured towards making impressively tasteless art rather than just boringly tasteless art. [Ali chuckles]
Sylvia: Hello. Speaking of boringly tasteless. [crosstalk]
Jack: Hi Sylvi!
Austin: I came in on Keith saying, you know, just from the angle I'm not sure. And I thought you were talking about these crackers you placed in the chat thinking like, you're not sure if the crackers are good based on the angles they're taking in this photo. [Keith laughs]
Jack: They look delicious in that photo. 
Janine: They’re just club crackers, you've had them.
Jack: I haven't. 
Janine: You've had club crackers! 
Keith: Yeah they're just like the buttery kinda crackers. They're the standard cracker.
Janine: You've had club crackers because the reason I started getting club crackers was because we all had some club crackers and I was like shit, these are good. 
Jack: Oh wow, wow! So, wow. Maybe, wow I have. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: You’ve had club crackers, they come free with your Xbox! [Keith, Ali and Austin laugh]
Ali: The way that you really went through that knowledge, like accepting it, was incredible. [Jack and Janine laugh] Oh I guess I have had club crackers! 
Jack: Oh! I guess, I guess… 
Art: In England they’re called foxhunt crackers. [everyone laughs]
Dre: Jesus.
Jack: This is like we're trying to go through the Balatro poker hands version of puns on the name ‘club’ in the last I would say ten minutes of conversation. We've had expensive golf clubs, we've had Xbox club, we've had fox hunting, it’s the works-- I don't think they club foxes to death. 
Sylvia: I hope not... 
Jack: No, it's equally bad, but… [overlapping] 
Austin: Was that…a question?
Art: If the Disney movie taught me anything, the hounds kill them. 
Janine: I think the club is like if you have to put it out of its misery at the end? [noises of discomfort from the table]
Jack: It's a bad country.
Sylvia: Yeah, no, I know! 
Keith: I feel like the club is…the club is misery.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: The club is misery. 
Austin: [pensively] The club is misery.
Keith: Not the crackers, the crackers are really nice. They're like the cheapest, easiest to find good crackers. 
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah. 
Sylvia: Me hungover on a Saturday: the club is misery. [everyone laughs]
Jack: The club is misery!
Art: Jess found a pie that uses these crackers. It's a very good pie. 
Janine: Is it the mock apple pie? 
Art: No, it's the Carolina Beach Pie. It's like a lemon custard…[overlapping]
Dre: I was gonna ask if it's like a lemon pie, ‘cause that sounds good. 
Art: Yeah. It’s a lemon… [overlapping]
Ali: Remember that pie we had? No, go on. I’m just always thinking… [laughs] 
Art: That's what I got. 
Keith: What pie did you have? 
Ali: There was a very...Austin invited me and Jack to a different friend’s fourth of July, like, sit-down dinner? [overlapping]
Jack: Oh, I remember this!
Art: [baffled] A fourth of July sit-down dinner?
Ali: A situation that seems ruder and ruder the further I get away from it. [laughs, crosstalk]
Austin: Why?
Jack: I had a lovely time.
Keith: To you or to the other friend?
Austin: Those people played the Transmission, the Technoir Transmission that became COUNTER/WEIGHT. Before any of y’all did.
Ali: [laughs] Sure, sure sure sure.
Austin: So, eh, y’know.
Art: But a fourth of July sit-down dinner is, like you told me…like, that sounds like it’s from The Purge. [overlapping]
Dre: That’s somethin’.
Ali: [laughs] It was great, don’t get me wrong…
Austin: It was so good. What was the big meat dish? They had like a whole hog, or something? [overlapping]
Ali: It was not a whole hog.
Art: It was poor person. 
Jack: It was a lovely apartment too. 
Keith: Wow. It was a whole hog, like, that's so impressive that it's an expression. [Ali laughs]
Jack: Who’s that, um, incredible composer, Austin, who was there? 
Austin: Scott. Scott Hallam.
Keith: Beethoven.
Ali: [laughing] Beethoven was there.
Austin: Scott, who did the soundtrack for A(s)Century forever ago. Yeah. That was Scott’s apartment. 
Jack: Oh wow! At that time, Scott had mic’d the clarinet for his work in the most impressive way I had heard a clarinet be recorded, and I had a lot of like, precise conversations with him and I'm like, how did you do that? And that's where Marielda comes from. 
Austin: Fuckin’, this is the fucking invisible curricula of Friends at the Table, Scott Hallam, who I ran into recently, we got--
Jack: How's he doing? 
Austin: Good, I was like, oh, damn, you stopped making music and then Scott was like, no, actually, I make a new, I make a new um, ambient song every day. Every single day I wake up and make a new ambient track and I put it online for people to listen to it… 
Ali: Wha! [laughs]
Austin: Like that's the coolest thing you could be doing, actually. Yeah, it was nice. 
Ali: There was like a grapefruit pie there. Like a key lime grapefruit pie that was like…[impressed noise from the table]
Jack: There was! I forgot about that pie! [overlapping]
Ali: …I think about that pie twice a year, at least. 
Dre: Wow, I don't blame you. 
Art: But I would like to amend my previous statement, and the pie that I was referring to was called Atlantic Beach pie, not Carolina Beach pie, and I apologize for the confusion. I don't want to make any of you struggle to find a pie. 
Dre: Never.
Austin: I bet there's a Carolina Beach pie though.
Art: I can’t vouch for it.
Austin: I mean doing a search for it just brings you to Atlantic Beach pie, so. [Ali chuckles]
Keith: Market cornered.
Jack: By the Atlantic. [laughing]
Art: I mean, yeah, the Atlantic just took the whole thing. I mean, that's the ocean they're on. You can't change your ocean. 
Austin: Watch me. 
Sylvia: Yeah! 
Ali: Wallpaper Engine?
Sylvia: It's called trans-Atlantic for a reason! [Austin laughs, overlapping]
Dre: What about Wallpaper Engine?
Ali: Yeah, what are you doing over there? 
Art: It is, but that’s not it. 
Sylvia: No, it’s not, but like, I dunno! [Art laughs] 
Austin: Are we all back?
Ali: We are.
Keith: I’m back.
Dre: Are you saying Wallpaper Engine because that's like showing up as like the open game on my Discord or something? 
Ali: Yeah, it just popped up as a Steam thing so I called you out. [laughs] 
Dre: Oh, that’s weird. 
Austin: That’s wild.
Dre: I mean, it's open because I have a background on my computer. And Wallpaper Engine is just always running. 
Ali: Oh, that’s so funny. 
Janine: Do you have one of those moving anime girl backgrounds? 
Dre: No. 
Austin: Is it another type of moving background? 
Dre: Yeah, it's like a rainy city. 
Austin: I didn’t know that this was…yeah okay, I see. Cool.
Sylvia: I have a friend who uses Discord on her Steam Deck through Steam, and so we’ll just see her playing Discord pop up and it makes me laugh.
Austin: That’s awesome. That’s very funny. Alright, should we do a clap? 
Dre: Sure. 
Janine: Like a 3-2-1? 
Ali: A 3-2-1.
Austin: We can do a 3-2-1. 3, 2, 1. [All clap]
[End music]