Clapcast 46: New Italians (June 2021)
Transcriber: robotchangeling




Keith: I can totally imagine being late for something because my alarm that I set in the morning didn’t go off 'cause my phone died— 


Austin: Oh, a hundred percent. 


Keith: 'Cause I plugged in my phone to charge it, and the thing was off.


Austin: Yeah. Yes.


Janine: Mmm.


Austin: Yes. I did that today, probably. [Keith and Janine laugh] Like, not actually, but you know. You know what I'm saying.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Dre: Oh yeah, that’s just a switch, huh?


Austin: Let me bring myself down just a little bit. One, two, three. Alright. 


Dre: The thing that sucks is in our living room there is one of those outlets that has the little push button—


Austin: Mmm.


Jack: Oh no.


Dre: But it controls the electricity to every other outlet.


Austin: Oh, that’s terrible.


Keith: I've had that before, yeah.


Dre: And we learned that, again, the time I thought our whole electricity died.


Austin: Yes. totally. [Dre laughs] This makes sense to me.


Keith: God, you know, I look at those UK plugs or the EU plugs, and I just hate them, even though I know that they’re literally better and that US plugs are trash.


Jack: They’re so much better, but also I agree with you. They’re better for basically every reason, but they’re heavier and larger.


Dre: Mmm.


Keith: Yeah. 


Jack: And so, when I'm traveling, I like US plugs.


Austin: There’s too much negative space, IMO. They’re big white plastic shields, and I don't know, there’s something about the US plug. I guess the Canadian plug is similar.


Keith: They have a nicer look.


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: And the other thing is, there’s no reason—


Dre: Oh, are Canadian plugs different?


Austin: No, no, I was saying US and Canadian as one.


Keith: Yeah.


Dre: Okay.


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: I also...I just don't think there’s any reason why they have to be so wide. [Jack laughs] Like, you can just...because the UK plugs are three-prong plugs. We have three-prong plugs too, and they are not stupid and big like that. So I do like that they’re better in every single way except for how they look, [Austin laughs softly] but I don’t like how they look.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Jack: Hmm.


Austin: I feel you.


Keith: Yeah.


Jack: What’s the— 


Austin: I do hate that sometimes you get an American plug that only has the two...or maybe only extension cords. Extension cords only have the two, they don’t have the three sometimes, right?


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: That’s annoying. That’s annoying.


Keith: Yeah, I've had that. When you gotta plug something with a three-prong in, and the extension cord you can find has two.


Jack: Very wobbly and…


Austin: Oh, it’s mostly that if you have to plug in a three, you can't do it in a thing that only has two. And so it’s like…


Jack: Oh, you mean on the...right.


Austin: On the outlet. Yeah, if you have three on the plug but two in the outlet, two outlet—


Jack: You’re screwed. That’s it.


Austin: You’re screwed. That’s it. 


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: I have to go to a different place. Yeah. Uh huh. 


Keith: Well, here’s how you’re not screwed, because I will deform that plug to get it in if I need to, [Austin and Jack laugh] and have done so.


Austin: Oh, geez. 


Dre: Mmm.


Austin: But I wouldn’t. I wouldn’t. I believe you.


Keith: Well, the third one is just the ground, so nothing goes through there.


Austin: [nervous] Okay.


Dre: That’s important, though.


Austin: Yeah, I'm not touching it. Good luck with…good luck to you.


Keith: Well, it’s also really important— sometimes you need to plug something in, and it’s very important that you do that.


Dre: No, that’s fair.


Austin: I get it. I just would rather have to plug it across the room than get rid of the…


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: You know.


Jack: The grounding.


Keith: The first time I did this, I knew what it was, but I was surprised. It’s just plastic behind there. You pull it out, it’s just—


Jack: Yeah, the top one in the UK’s just plastic as well.


Keith: Yeah, you pull out the metal bit, and behind there’s just plastic. It doesn’t go anywhere. It just sits in there.


Austin: Right.


Jack: What’s the outlet situation in Bluff versus Blough, do you think? It’s gotta suck in Blough City, right?


Austin: Can you have a single thing in plug? [all laugh]


Dre: Yeah, sure, uh huh.


Keith: Yeah, everything looks like a 3.5 millimeter jack.


Austin: Uh huh, yeah.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: Absolutely.


Keith: You’re constantly yanking it out of the walls, and also every time you plug it in there’s a weird spark.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Dre: Everything is a USB plug, and every time you need micro it’s mini, and every time you need mini it’s micro.


Austin: It’s micro, yeah. Forever. Uh huh.


Jack: Oh my god.


Sylvia: I'm just remembering the year my family lived in Germany, and any time we’d go see my mom’s family in Ireland or something, we had to get another separate adapter.


Jack: Mmm.


Austin: Jesus christ.


Sylvia: Not the one that adapted it to German, but the one that adapted it to...the German one to the UK.


Austin: Right.


Sylvia: So I'd have a North American plug..


Jack: Oh my god.


Austin: God.


Sylvia: Yeah. [Dre laughs] So it’s amazing that I didn’t die.


Keith: Man.


Dre: This is a horrific daisy chain that you are describing.


Austin: Mmhmm.


Sylvia: Like a...hold on. I'm getting one of these things because they’re big, too, these adapters.


Keith: Yeah.


Sylvia: They’re chunky.


Jack: It’s like that thing that was doing the rounds of a plug with two plug sockets on either end.


Austin: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.


Keith: [realization] Ohh.


Jack: Oh, I hate that.


Austin: Mmhmm.


Keith: I think...okay. Maybe someone will decide to tell me whether this is why— I'm not going to look this up.


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: So, if I'm right, then wow, what a good job I did. I think I just figured out why they’re wider and I don’t like how wide they are. I just worked out in my head, it’s because they have to be wider because they’re more powerful and it’ll arc from one end of the metal to the other end.


Austin: That makes perfect sense. That makes perfect sense to me. Yes.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: I was trying to think— 


Keith: ‘Cause it’s two...what is it? Two twenty volt or something?


Austin: That’s— 


Jack: But they need bigger infrastructure?


Austin: Yeah. Well, like— 


Keith: Well it’s just that the electricity will jump from one end to the other and short circuit something—


Dre: Hmm.


Keith: And so it needs to be wider to prevent the electricity arcing from one prong to another?


Austin: That makes a lot of sense to me. I was trying to figure out, in my head, that same question, and I was like, well maybe it’s wider so that it’s safer so that they don't touch. There’s a lower chance of it touching, which would also be bad, I would bet? But maybe…


Jack: Huh.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: But I don't know. I don't know.


Keith: I don't know.


Austin: I don't know shit about shit, honestly. I once dropped a penny into a power strip, like in between an AC adapter and the power strip—


Jack: [concerned] Whoa.


Austin: And it chewed through the penny.


Dre: [alarmed] Ugh, ah!


Keith: Wow.


Austin: Like a hundred percent, holes in the penny as if it had been bitten by small fangs and burnt it.


Jack: Electricity doesn’t mess about.


Austin: Nah.


Keith: No.


Austin: It really doesn't.


Dre: No.


Keith: It doesn’t.


Austin: It was wild. I kept that penny for years. It was like a lucky charm for me. [laughs] For some reason.


Keith: So you just dropped it, and it perfectly dropped…


Austin: It perfectly fell right in.


Keith: Wow.


Jack: Did you drop it on purpose, or…?


Austin: No, no. I was probably like…


Jack: I didn’t know if you were like, “I'm gonna kill this penny.” [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: No. I was probably cleaning a tabletop.


Dre: “Fuck this penny.”


Austin: I was like ten, you know what I mean? And I was probably cleaning a tabletop and just swept a bunch of fucking coins off into a bag, and one of them missed and fell into the power strip next to my TV or whatever.


Dre: So did it spit it back out?


Austin: I don’t think...it must have, right?


Jack: Did you unplug it from the wall and then turn it upside down, or...?


Austin: The power in my whole room died, you know what I mean? [chuckles] 


Jack: Sure, yeah, I was also gonna say, did the whole apartment building go down?


Austin: It sounded like, you know, a gun went off. My whole room shut down. We had to go down to the basement to turn the fuse back on or whatever it’s called.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: And then, yeah, it was just on the ground smoking.


Jack: To me, this is the companion story to some sugar reaction destroying that coffee cup of yours.


Austin: Yes, totally. That house is haunted. My mom’s house is haunted.


Jack: Oh, same place?


Austin: But not by a ghost. Yeah, same place. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But by reactions. By explosive energies.


Jack: Physics.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. Anyway, let’s play this game! [laughs] 


Jack: Yeah, you gotta bring in the smudge stick and the…


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. That’s...I went to twitch.tv instead of time.is. That’s different.


Jack: Are you gonna watch one of those streamers, Austin?


Austin: I'm gonna watch a streamer. I'll just let them do the GMing. Let’s see. [Jack and Sylvia laugh] There we go. We’re gonna let cohhcarnage do the GMing today.


Keith: “Ko“ like K-O or “co” like cooperative?


Austin: C-O-H-H, it’s C-O-H-H. He’s like a well-known PC gamer.


Keith: Oh.


Dre: Hmm.


Jack: He’s probably not as good at running Friends at the Table as you.


Austin: No, no. He’s pretty good at playing Battletech, but that’s it. That’s all I know.


Jack: Yeah, and also maybe like, Tarkov.


Austin: Yeah, definitely like a Tarkov. Yeah, sure. God, I wish I could be a Tarkov gamer.


Jack: Mmm.


Austin: [laughs] Those people, the people who make it suck when they [??? 7:57]


Jack: When they add women and a better on ramp, I’ll be...


Austin: [laughs] Yeah, I'll be right there! Ah, ah. I played that game once. My friend Haley and I played it. She had been playing it for months, and I had been playing it for minutes. [Jack laughs] And it was very fun and very scary. That is my Tarkov experience, overwhelming.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: It was one of those games where people are shooting at you and you have no idea where they’re shooting at you from, which is appropriate for fighting people in the ruins of post-apocalyptic Russia or whatever, but yeah. I...yeah. 


Sylvia: That’s just an ARMA-type game, right?


Austin: It’s like a multiplayer…


Jack: ARMA-type beat. [Austin laughs]


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, ARMA-type beat. It’s like an ARMA but...it’s like a...you know Hunt Showdown? It’s more like Hunt Showdown in some ways.


Sylvia: Okay.


Austin: It’s PvPvE.


Dre: Is it a battle royale?


Austin: No?


Jack: [hesitant] No.


Dre: Okay.


Austin: Here’s the type of game it is. You have to queue for a mission that happens every twenty minutes. There’s like, alright, everyone drops in twenty minutes and goes into a map.


Dre: Okay.


Austin: And it’s not hundreds of people, but it’s like a dozen people plus a bunch of NPCs. It’s like S.T.A.L.K.E.R. It’s that style of setting.


Jack: Yeah.


Sylvia: Okay.


Dre: Gotcha.


Jack: It has...


Austin: And you go in to get stuff, and the stuff you get ranges from “Oh wow, I'm thrilled I found this new scope for a rifle,” to “these are some sick sticks of RAM, and those will flip for a bunch on the marketplace.”


Jack: Toilet roll.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. It’s a lot of like, “Oh, I found a computer! I can get the hard drive out of here and flip it for parts!” which is extremely funny.


Jack: It has two really interesting mechanics, the first of which, which I kind of hate, is everything you bring in, if you die, you lose, and everything is available for real money, I believe.


Austin: That might be true, yeah.


Dre: Oh, that sucks.


Austin: Oh yeah.


Jack: So if I have an extremely good AK-47 that I've spent forever upgrading and I get killed, that’s…


Austin: Gone.


Jack: That’s gone.


Austin: Miserable.


Jack: The other thing is, Titanfall-style, there are AI entities on the map as well.


Austin: Oh.


Jack: But in what only feels like a cruel joke by god, they are almost better players than the humans.


[Timestamp: 0:10:00]


Sylvia: Okay.


Jack: So, like…


Austin: There is actually another thing connected to that, which is…


Jack: Is it the scav runs?


Austin: It’s the scav runs, which is like if you— 


Sylvia: Uh huh?


Austin: Say you don’t want to go in. Those characters that Jack is talking about are called scavs, scavengers.


Sylvia: Okay.


Austin: And if you don't want to risk your shit or if you’ve lost everything and need to start over, you can play as one of those NPC scavs, and you just start with whatever random gear they start with. So random bandit-tier gear.


Dre: Hmm.


Austin: And if you get out of the map, if you make it to an escape route—


Jack: They sort of graduate.


Austin: They graduate into full characters, and then you just get all their shit, which is great.


Dre: Huh.


Jack: I've seen someone play— 


Austin: You also get special crates to put your gear in, and if it’s in that crate, you don’t lose it.


Jack: It’s monumentally hostile.


Austin: Yes. It’s terrible. I hate it. 


Sylvia: Yeah…


Austin: I would love to...yeah. It’s…


Sylvia: Everything about this sounds like a game I would hate.


Jack: Mmhmm.


Austin: It is!


Sylvia: So I'm just gonna…


Austin: Yeah.


Sylvia: I'm just gonna stay away.


Austin: It’s like EVE Online, if EVE Online was S.T.A.L.K.E.R., is really what it is.


Jack: Yeah.


Sylvia: Ugh.


Jack: That’s the pitch, Austin.


Dre: Right? Okay, yeah.


Austin: That’s the pitch, which is why I'm fascinated by it and also don’t play it, right? [laughs] 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Dre: Right. That’s the kind of game where I would need...how big are the teams? Is it like four people?


Austin: I wanna say two or three?


Dre: Okay. I would absolutely need two other dedicated people.


Austin: Yes. Yes. A hundred percent.


Dre: And that’s the only people I ever play the game with.


Jack: A Shape Knight for...


Austin: Uh huh.


Sylvia: That is the kind of game where I do not want to talk to people who are super deep into it.


Jack: Oh, uh huh.


Austin: A hundred percent.


Dre: Yeah. For sure.


Jack: Tarkov vibes.


Austin: Absolutely. Okay, squad limit is five. I feel like you could get five people, and that—


Jack: How many people are on this call?


Austin: Five.


Jack: There’s five of us, right?


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: There’s five, yeah.


Jack: Alright. Roll out.


Austin: Alright, download this fuckin’ game.


Dre: Well, guess we’re streaming Tarkov. I don't know. 


Austin: [laughs] No.


Sylvia: Oh my god. Okay, if we just jumped in, and I had no idea what I was doing, I would do that. That is the—


Austin: That would be funny. Right.


Sylvia: That is the instance I would play this game.


Austin: Exactly. But you just can't, because you need at least one person to be your guide who will make you—


Sylvia: Yeah.


Jack: [??? 11:521]


Austin: Who will tell you what button it is to stop bleeding, which… [Austin, Jack, and Dre laugh] If I remember right, that’s the thing that happened to me, is I got shot, and then I was like, “I have to get to an exit before I bleed out.” And then, you know, I had fifteen minutes before I bled out, but the exit was thirty minutes away of walking slowly through the weeds to not get shot. Ugh.


Keith: Wait, and you didn’t press the Stop Bleeding button?


Austin: I didn’t have the Stop Bleeding stuff.


Keith: Damn.


Austin: It was one of those things where I had to find— I had to either just try to run, make a break for it towards an exit, or try to find bandages to heal myself, and I just could not find bandages, and by the time I was like, “I’ll just try to get out of here,” it was too late, so.


Keith: Damn.


Austin: Anyway. [exasperated sound] We should clap.


Dre: Man, today’s quote sucks.


Jack: I gotta tell you, tomorrow’s quote sucks too.


Keith: Oh no.


Austin: [reading] “Don’t be fooled by the calendar. There are only as many days in the year—”


Jack: [overlapping] Oh, I got the same one. Okay. 


Austin: Okay. “...as you make use of. One man only gets a week’s value out of a year, while another man gets a full year’s value out of a week.” Shut the fuck up, Charles Richards.


Keith: Charles Richards, shut up.


Austin: Shut the fuck up.


Sylvia: This is just a much shittier version of that, sometimes…I can’t remember the units of time. Like a decade’s worth of history happens in a week or whatever?


Jack: The Einstein quote.


Keith: It’s seconds, hours.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Dre: This is just “Rise and grind.”


Jack: I know.


Dre: That’s all


Austin: Mmhmm.


Dre: That’s all it is.


Sylvia: That’s all these quotes!


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Yeah.


Keith: Who do you think this guy is? Do you think this guy is Charles A. Chas—oh, Chaz, probably—Richard, United States Navy Admiral, who currently serves as Eleventh Commander of the United States Strategy Command?


Dre: Probably.


Jack: Probably.


Keith: Probably not.


Austin: [Southern-ish accent] “Don’t be fooled by the calendar,” he says. [Jack laughs] Yeah, maybe.


Sylvia: Look, I'm not going to listen to a guy whose name can be shortened to Chuck Dicks, okay? So. [all laugh]


Austin: Get his ass. Charles. Get the fuck out of here! [Sylvia laughs] 


Jack: Tomorrow’s quote is by Bruce Lee, and Bruce Lee says, “If you spend too much time thinking about a thing, you’ll never get it done.”


Austin: Hmm!


Sylvia: Damn.


Keith: I like that better.


Dre: Alright, yeah, that’s…


Sylvia: That’s better.


Austin: Okay, but it’s the same. It’s the same quote.


Sylvia: It’s the same, but it’s nicer.


Austin: But it’s nicer.


Keith: Well, but it’s saying don’t…


Austin: It’s at least a tip.


Dre: Or Bruce Lee had ADHD, is the other thing. [laughs] 


Austin: Right. So a thing is, it’s at least, here’s how you do it, right? Because Charles is just like, “do more shit.” Bruce is like, “listen. You’re not going to get as much shit done if you just overthink shit.” You know what I mean? At least that’s actionable.


Keith: I like that he says don’t bother thinking. Don't worry about it.


Austin: [laughing] That’s not exactly what he said.


Jack: Also, the thing is, I will absolutely take a quote more seriously from someone who can kick a brick in half.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: Oh, yeah.


Austin: Uh huh. I'll listen to whatever you have to say. [Dre laughs] Also, we just don’t even know who this Charles Richards is. I've tried searching. There’s a bunch.


Jack: It’s that fucking military guy, I bet.


Austin: [disdainful] Oh, I found it. I bet it’s the author of The Psychology of Wealth.


Keith: Oh, wow.


Austin: Understanding Your Relationship— uh huh, yeah.


Keith: Oh, yeah, that’s it.


Dre: That sounds…


Austin: Also the author of The New Italians, which… [laughs] Who are they?


Jack: What the fuck?


Dre: New Italians just dropped?


Austin: [laughing] New Italians just dropped! [Keith laughs] Ey!


Jack: [laughs] What is The New Italians? I'm looking this up.


Austin: It’s probably fucked. It’s probably fucked!


Sylvia: Have you heard of The New Mutants, like Marvel did?


Austin: Oh, yeah.


Jack: Oh, yeah.


Sylvia: It’s like that. 


Austin: Mmhmm.


Sylvia: Actually, The New Italians would be a good name for a Sopranos sequel series, which should never be made ever. I haven’t even seen that show, and I know that shouldn’t exist.


Austin: [sighs] Yeah.


Keith: I think they should do a teen Sopranos on the CW.


Sylvia: They— mmm.


Jack: Should they call it Teen Sopranos?


Sylvia: Aren’t they doing that?


Keith: Yes, they should call it that.


Austin: Uh…


Jack: They are, actually, yeah.


Keith: Are they really? I literally just made this up in my head


Jack: They’re just working on it.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Is this real? Is that true?


Dre: That’s incredible.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Wait, what’s the vocal range...is there a vocal range under soprano? [Jack laughs] 


Keith: Under— all of them.


Jack: Yeah, all of them.


Dre: Yeah, all of them.


Sylvia: The Altos.


Austin: Yeah, the Altos, there you go.


Dre: The alto, mezzo, forte, whatever.


Austin: Well, it’s the one under it, because they’re littler. [Jack laughs] 


Sylvia: Yeah, they’re doing a prequel film on HBO.


Austin: Mmhmm.


Jack: Who’s making it?


Austin: Hmm.


Sylvia: [thoughtful noise] I don't know.


Keith: Oh! I am.


Austin: Oh, it’s— oh! Okay. 


Jack: Well done! That’s a, yeah.


Keith: This is day marketing. [laughs] Yeah.


Dre: Congrats, Keith.


Keith: Friends at the Table is day marketing for Teen Sopranos on HBO. [laughs] 


Austin: God. Alan Taylor is directing it. David Chase wrote it. It seems like there’s original…


Jack: So it seems like either David Chase has an idea or got paid enough money not to worry about it!


Austin: Or got paid enough. Yeah, mmhmm.


Jack: Which, you know. Look, I’ll make that COUNTER/Weight show.


Keith: I heard Bruce Lee said a little thing about “don't think, just do it.” [Jack laughs]


Austin: Don’t think, just take the check. That’s what Bruce Lee said. Its called The Many Saints of Newark, which is a very funny name, to me. 


Jack: Mmm.


Dre: Hmm.


Austin: I don’t hate it. Anyway.


Jack: Where’s Newark?


Austin: I hate this. I hate that this is getting made.


Sylvia: Newark’s in New Jersey, I believe.


Austin: Yeah, Newark is a big city in North Jersey near New York.


Jack: Oh, cool!


Austin: N-E-W-A-R-K, Newark.


Jack: Hmm.


Keith: Did they name it so that it kind of sounded like New York?


Austin: I don't know. I would bet not, because I bet it existed before New York was New York. That’s my guess. I bet it predates New York.


Jack: Oh, I meant to type Newark, but I just typed New York. [Jack, Sylvia, and Dre laugh]


Austin: Uh huh. Good. Let’s see, here.


Dre: Wait, do we still need to clap?


Austin: The name of the city is—


Sylvia: Yeah, we do.


Dre: Okay.


Austin: Oh, the name of the city is thought to derive from Newark-on-Trent. So, Newark, of course, already existed.


Dre: Okay. Gotcha.


Austin: Classic bullshit English name that we just, ugh. Already had “new” in it. [Jack laughs] Why do y'all have “new” in it already?


Jack: Newark-on-Trent is in…the East Midlands.


Austin: Is it not on Trent?


Jack: It’s not on Trent. [??? 17:30]


Keith: [laughs] Did it move?


Austin: Ah, I see.


Jack: And it is called Newarcher or Newawork. (???)


Austin: Oh, it means “new work.”


Jack: Which is, yeah.


Austin: Yeah, it means “new work” with the apparent meaning of “new fort,” yeah, sure.


Jack: [overlapping] Like “new fort.”


Dre: Mmhmm


Jack: As in earthworks.


Austin: Yeah, mmhmm. That’s fun.


Jack: ??? 17:46


Sylvia: New Fort is my favorite TF2 map. [Austin laughs]


Jack: God, I love New Fort. [Austin and Dre laugh]


Austin: God.


Jack: Capture the flag mode, going across the bridge. [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: Going across the bridge, yeah! Yeah. 


Jack: The underwater...


Austin: The under warren, yeah, you go under it. You play as a Spy, and you go under it, and you go like, “oh, yeah, I'm one of you guys.”


Jack: Good run for Scouts as well, 'cause there’s turrets on the bridge.


Austin: Sure, sure. Yeah. Mmhmm.


Jack: Bits of my brain that haven’t worked in ten years are suddenly lighting up. [Dre laughs] 


Sylvia: Yeah, same.


Austin: If I can tell you, I never played TF2. All of what I just said is from TFC.


Jack: Oh.


Dre: Mmm.


Austin: Which was Team Fortress Classic, which also just had that map. [laughs] 


Jack: Had 2Fort


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Okay, great.


Austin: A hundred percent, it was my favorite.


Dre: Yeah, no, yeah.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Jack: That’s a good map. It’s a really good map.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Keith: It is a really good map.


Dre: It’s 2Fort.


Austin: It’s still 2Fort.


Dre: Wasn’t it a Quake map? Right? 


Austin: Yeah, it was also a Team Fortress map.


Dre: Right.


Austin: Which before Team Fortress Classic, but I was a Team C.


Jack: It’s like a de_dust tier legendary map.


Austin: Yes. Oh, a hundred percent, yeah. A hundred percent. Yeah.


Dre: Yeah, and then in UT they had Facing Worlds, which was basically just 2Fort but they put it on an asteroid.


Jack: Oh, yeah!


Austin: Yeah. Yeah. 


Jack: That was sick.


Austin: That’s a good place. Why not, you know?


Dre: Yeah.


Keith: I like how 2Fort, you know, you play 2Fort, you’re basically agreeing that between two and five players are just going to be sniping.


Austin: Mmhmm! [laughs] 


Keith: Playing their own little game.


Jack: Yes, on the battle mode.


Sylvia: They’re not protecting anything.


Austin: But that was fun! That’s a fun thing to do, though! You know.


Keith: Yeah, it gives the Spy something to do as well.


Austin: Yeah, totally. That’s what I'm saying.


Sylvia: Yeah, that’s where I come in.


Austin: Yeah. Love it. God, we should just play TF2. Someone teach me TF2.


Keith: Have you really not played TF2?


Austin: Never.


Keith: That’s so funny.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: I remember being the Pyro and just clearing out those little sniper zones, along with my friendly Spy as well.


Austin: Mmhmm.


Jack: We’d just both go in there in a cloud of fire, and clear out the Spies.


Austin: Also, I am—- okay, I have lied. I played 4.8 hours of TF2. That’s how much TF2 I've played, which is none.


Jack: I think I've played 250 hours.


Austin: Right, exactly. That’s what it means to play TF2. I understand this. I played TF2 long enough to get the airpods— no, what were they?


Dre: The earbuds?


Sylvia: They were earbuds, yeah.


Austin: Earbuds, earbuds, yeah, thank you. Yeah, predates the airpod, obviously. And then I sold those—


Sylvia: It would be really funny if they put in airpods when airpods got announced, though.


Austin: It would have been very funny.


Keith: I have 57 hours logged on Steam, but that’s because I know that I also have 500 hours on the Xbox 360.


[Timestamp: 0:20:05]


Austin: Yeah, Xbox 360.


Jack: Keith, I—


Austin: The only thing I played from the orange box was Portal, which is very strange.


Keith: Wow.


Dre: Hmm.


Austin: Anyway, what were you going to say, Jack?


Jack: Oh, Keith, I played most of Team Fortress 2 on Xbox 360, which was the world’s most weirdest and broken port—


Austin: Mmm.


Keith: Yeah.


Jack: But maybe we played each other, Keith. Long before we knew each other.


Keith: That would be funny.


Austin: I love that.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: I love that, conceptually, so much.


Keith: Look, there’s so many people that were playing that game, but also, I played like 500 hours of it. That’s quite a bit.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah!


Sylvia: I checked. I've played 230, which is not the most I've played of something on Steam, but the other ones were much worse.


Austin: Wait, what’s the other one?


Keith: What is it?


Austin: Is it Dota?


Sylvia: I have 790 hours in Dota 2.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Dre: Mmm.


Jack: Oh, Sylvi. Commiserations. 


Dre: Forgot you’re a Dota person.


Austin: I love that about you.


Sylvia: Not anymore! I used to be.


Austin: [doubtful] Mmm.


Sylvia: I'm kinda still...I like MOBAs. They’re fun.


Austin: I get you.


Dre: Yeah.


Keith: [??? 20:55]


Austin: It fucks me up that Final Fantasy XIV is now…


Dre: We started playing Heroes of the Storm the other day.


Austin: Yeah?


Keith: That game’s really good. I love that game.


Dre: Eh, it’s a fun game.


Austin: Didn’t they just stop supporting it, basically?


Dre: Yeah, no, it’s dead.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: But people still play it.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Huh.


Keith: Yeah, they pulled their esports people off of it a while back.


Austin: Yes, yes.


Keith: Did they announce that they were done adding stuff to it as well?


Dre: Yeah, they’re not making anymore content, no more patches.


Keith: That’s fine. It’s full of good content already.


Sylvia: Yeah. It’s fine. I think the thing with the esports stuff was that it became...I don't know about how it is in its final form now, but it felt really easy for teams to just roll over other teams when I played.


Dre: Mmm.


Sylvia: Because of the shared experience thing.


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: The thing that I liked about it was actually kind of the opposite, where I never was good at any MOBA except for that game. I could always join in after not playing for eight months and basically do fine.


Sylvia: That rules. That’s great.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: Mmhmm. Yeah, that’s fantastic.


Keith: That’s what I really liked about it.


Austin: That’s great.


Sylvia: [laughing] I tried to go back to Dota recently, and they changed everything?


Austin: Oh, yeah, you can't go back.


Sylvia: Where’s the side shop? That used to be a thing!


Austin: Yeah, no. No.


Sylvia: Why do I have my own courier now?


Austin: You just get a shop whenever, right?


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: You just, yeah, couriers are, yeah. I don’t like looking at my— 


Sylvia: Everyone gets one.


Austin: I don’t like looking at my Steam hours played thing, because it’s like—


Jack: How do you find it?


Austin: I wish I could— uh, if you go to your library, you can sort by hours played.


Dre: Yeah.


Jack: Oh, shit. This is going to be brutal.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: Some of it on mine too is that I've left that game open by accident for a while.


Austin: Yeah, sure. Sure. The thing of like, oh I have 800 hours in this thing, but no you don't. You just left it on while working, and didn’t actually play it.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Sylvia: Especially with Final Fantasy or something, where—


Austin: Sure.


Sylvia: When it’s patching, sometimes it counts, right?


Austin: Oh, sure. Yeah, that does, cause you’re on the launcher, and that’s—


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, that’s the executable. Yeah, I have 250 in Final Fantasy XIV, which is too many. I have 215 in Starbound, a game I don't think I touched for more than 3 hours after it hit 1.0.


Jack: Huh!


Dre: [??? 22:57]


Austin: 194 in PUBG, which is so funny to me, because that’s probably the most compressed time I have in anything, where it was just like, that was a summer, and that’s all I did that summer. [laughs] 


Dre: Yeah. Yeah, the summer of PUBG was a time.


Austin: It really was. I miss PUBG. I miss caring about— I miss playing a game like that along with a bunch of other people.


Dre: Whoof, 365 hours on PUBG.


Austin: Wow.


Jack: How do I do this?


Keith: Can you sort by time played? 


Austin: That’s what we’re doing.


Dre: Yeah. That’s my most, is PUBG.


Jack: Where— if I hover over Library, I just get Home, Collections, and Downloads.


Austin: Just go to Home. Go to Home.


Jack: Uh huh.


Austin: Then, what do you see? What’s your right hand side look like when you do that?


Jack: It says “Home” at the top, and then it says “Games,” and then there’s a little search bar, and then there’s “Recent Games.”


Austin: But what’s on your right hand side? Oh, I guess I might have a different view than you.


Jack: It’s fucking...


Keith: Okay, I see. It’s in the big area.


Austin: Yeah, where all the games are.


Dre: Oh, god, I just saw my Valheim time, and I don't feel good about myself anymore.


Jack: It says “What’s New.”


Keith: What is it?


Jack: It says..


Dre: [sighs] Like 120.


Jack: Oh, I see!


Sylvia: See, most of the games that I've played for an unhealthy amount of time are on console, so I don't see this data.


Austin: Yeah, that’s the actual thing, yeah.


Keith: Yeah, same.


Austin: Or the other thing is that I don't have...I have 61 hours in Destiny 2 in Steam—


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: But that does not count previous Destiny play on PS3 or PS4 or whatever.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Dre: Mmm.


Austin: I have 124 hours in Dragon’s Dogma, and that’s just on this release. That doesn’t count Switch. That doesn’t count the PS4. [general laughter] So, you know.


Keith: Yeah. I still don't see the games played area.


Jack: If you go in and scroll down.


Keith: Okay.


Jack: It’s below Play Next for me.


Keith: Sort by— okay, yep. It was hiding.


Austin: I don’t have any of what you’re talking about.


Jack: My top one is Crusader Kings 2 at 90 hours.


Dre: Mmm.


Jack: Because I guess I mostly play games on consoles.


Austin: Mmhmm. My Crusader Kings— 


Keith: Mine is KOTOR 2, which does not count Xbox, obviously.


Austin: Yeah, sure


Keith: But at 176 hours.


Austin: Wow, look at you.


Dre: Wow.


Austin: That’s the other thing, here. There are definitely games that I know I have high counts on but that I pirated. [Sylvia laughs] 


Jack: Mmm.


Austin: So I only have 50 hours of New Vegas—


Dre: Mmhmm.


Austin: Because before I bought it on PC I had stolen it on PC.


Jack: The cool guy’s version of New Vegas. [laughs] 


Austin: Yeah, Crusader Kings 2 says I only played for 26 hours, but that’s because I've put hundreds of hours into it from an .exe I found.


Keith: Yeah, same. [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: And, in fact, this 25 hour one, I know how I afforded this finally. It was on sale, and it was on sale for about the price of some Apple earbuds. [Dre and Jack laugh] And so I finally flipped those earbuds and bought CK2.


Keith: Wow.


Sylvia: Comes full circle.


Austin: It does. 


Dre: Mmhmm.


Austin: We should do a clap.


Sylvia: Let’s do the— yeah.


Keith: I have 92 hours in PUBG. I do not know how that happened. [Jack laughs] 


Austin: ‘Cause everyone was playing it!


Jack: It’s a good game.


Austin: Everyone was playing that game for that summer.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: It was great.


Sylvia: Also, queue times add up, is a thing with a lot of these multiplayer games.


Austin: True.


Dre: Yeah, that’s true.


Austin: True, true.


Sylvia: Queue times add up a ton.


Austin: This is the thing. You know what, that makes me feel better about my Final Fantasy XIV. I play mostly DPS at this point, and so that’s all queue time. [laughs] 


Dre: Oh, yeah, that’s all queue time. 


Sylvia: [laughs] It doesn't make my almost 800 hours of Dota better to say I think a quarter of that is waiting. [Austin laughs] But it does skew it a little bit for me.


Austin: That’s true.


Keith: Yeah. I know I said this before, but nothing will ever touch my Halo 2 time.


Austin: Right. Sure.


Keith: It is like 4000 hours of Halo 2.


Austin: Of course! Yeah! Uh huh.


Dre: Yeah. Yeah.


Austin: Alright. Let’s clap at 15?


Keith: Well, not of course. Not very many people have played this for— 


Austin: [overlapping] 15! 15! 15! 15!


Keith: Oh.


[they clap, out of sync]


Keith: No, I way missed it.


Dre: No.


Austin: 20. [Keith laughs] 20, 20!


Sylvia: Sorry, I had my headphones off, 'cause I was tying my hair back.


[a few people clap, while Sylvia is still speaking]


Sylvia: I don't know a time!


Austin: [exasperated] Oh my god. [Dre laughs]


Sylvia: Sorry. [Austin chuckles] 


Dre: 35?


Austin: 35.


Dre: No, 30.


Austin: 35, 35.


Dre: 35.


Austin: That way everyone has time.


Sylvia: Uh huh.


[they clap, out of sync]


Austin: Oh my— someone was early? [laughter]


Jack: That was terrible. Just, okay. 45.


Austin: 45!


[they clap, a little better]


Dre: Okay.


Austin: Good enough. Ali, I'm sorry. [Sylvia laughs] 


Keith: One day we’ll be talking about how many hours we’ve spent recording Friends at the Table—


Austin: Uh huh!


Keith: And be like, “that’s fine a quarter of it was clap time.”


Austin: Yeah, most of it was claps, yeah. [Sylvia and Dre laugh] Uh huh. I'm just gonna do this. I’m just gonna take a screenshot of this and give it to Ali, and say “sorry.”


[musical transition]


Jack: Should we go to time.is?


Austin: We should go to time.is.


Janine: I went to open time.is earlier, and I typed in clap.com. I didn’t hit enter, but I'm wondering now.


Austin: It’s for sale. You have to call to buy it.


Janine: [intrigued] Oh.


Ali: Oh, wow.


Jack: [??? 27:36]


Dre: Oh, you gotta call Sweden.


Austin: Yeah.


Janine: That’s gonna be expensive.


Austin: Yeah.


Keith: Huh.


Austin: Don't trust it.


Keith: This is funny. I haven’t seen this before, where you go to a website and it’s someone who owns it saying, “We don’t want this. Call us to buy it.” [Jack and Austin laugh]


Janine: Mmm.


Austin: We want this less than we want money.


Keith: Does that say “Offer minimum: $100,000”?


Austin: They want an app to buy them or something probably, right?


Keith: Yeah. Yeah.


Janine: Yeah.


Austin: Alright. 


Keith: Niklas Münch.


Art: We haven’t even seen what they want for time.is to make it Friends at the Table Presents: time.is. [soft laughter]


Keith: I bet it’s $100.


Janine: Make a phone call.


Austin: I bet it’s more.


Keith: I bet it’s really low. I bet it’s shockingly low.


Austin: Ah, I feel like they’re in the currency game now, so I feel like they, you know?


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: They’re about that money.


Ali: Hmm.


Janine: I'm surprised that time.is didn’t somehow figure out how to do an NFT or something.


Sylvia: Ugh.


Janine: I would’ve bet they would’ve been into that.


Sylvia: Don’t put that into the world.


Austin: Yeah, it’s gonna happen now, isn’t it?


Art: An NFT of like 4:20 at June 9th or something?


Ali: I don’t want— 


Jack: [laughs] You buy the time.


Ali: I don't think of time.is as trendy, so.


Austin: Yet!


Art: Timeless, you would say.


Austin: Mmm. Mmhmm.


Ali: Mmm.


Janine: I mean, that’s exactly it, right? NFTs aren’t trendy. They’re extremely corny.


Austin: And time.is would—


Sylvia: It stands for Not Fucking Trendy.


Austin: Right.


Jack: [laughs] Right, it does!


Janine: It’s a hugely corny thing to do.


Austin: They got a newsletter. Should I subscribe to their newsletter?


Jack: [excited] Yes! What the fuck do you think that is?


Austin: Okay, calm down.


Sylvia: It’s just the quote of the day. [Dre and Janine laugh]


Austin: No, it says “Join the time.is mailing list to be the first to hear about [laughs] new features on time.is.” [Sylvia laughs] 


Dre: Oh, hell yeah.


Janine: What?


Austin: “Your email address will not be shared by anyone.


Sylvia: Gonna know when they add milliseconds.


Austin: I'm gonna hit Join Now.


Janine: Wait, when did they add this search bar? What am I searching on time.is?


Sylvia: I’m gonna search “time”.


Austin: Time.


Keith: Time, yeah, different time.


Austin: Oh, it’s places.


Sylvia: Oh, I searched time, and it gave me Timelkam, Upper Austria


Janine: Time, Norway.


Austin: There you go. Alright. 20 seconds?


Jack: Let’s do it.


Janine: Fuck, sorry. No, I clicked calendar by accident.


Dre: Yep. Nope, I'm fucked too.


Art: Okay.


Austin: [laughs] Okay.


Janine: [laughing] I ended up in some sort of weird calendar mode?


Ali: Yeah. 


Dre: I went to sign up for the newsletter, and I couldn’t get back in time. [Austin, Ali, and Janine laugh]


Austin: Alright, are we—


Ali: I went to hit Refresh, and I hit Home.


Austin: Okay.


Jack: Wow, this is just…


Austin: Off to a great…


Jack: Across the board.


Keith: [mock-serious] I can’t believe you three are holding us up like this! [general laughter]


Dre: Oh, Keith! 


Austin: Alright, 50.


Ali: 50?


Austin: 50 seconds.


[they clap, out of sync]


Austin: Oh no! [all laugh] Uh uh! Absolutely not!


Ali: It was a wave.


Keith: It was a wave. It was a firecracker.


Austin: That was distinct enough to be a trademarked jingle. [laughter] There were rhythmic elements.


Keith: It sounds like when you take a handful of those popping things, and you throw them at the ground all at once.


Austin: Yes.


Keith: Yeah.


Austin: Can we do one more at 25?


Ali: Mmhmm.


Jack: Let’s do it.


[they clap]


Austin: Okay.


Keith: That was a little better.


Austin: A little bit better!


[Sangfielle-themed end music]