Clapcast 28: Yaddle the Martian (December 2019)
Transcriber: Cole
Janine: They just used the same music over and over again. Like, it's not like— you know. Like, Final Fantasy— I haven't played a lot of Final Fantasy, but I can appreciate it in Final Fantasy 14, when they use, like, a familiar cue, or they, like, work a theme into another thing. And it's like, “Oh, that's really— that's cool. They're like— they're like tipping their hat. That's fun.” Um… Dragon Quest seems to— They'll just do— they just do the whole song. They just play it. Like, I can't count— I've played— I’ve played, like, no Dragon Quest. I've played Dragon Quest Builders 1, not to the end. Dragon Quest Builders 2, not to the end. And that... I think I wanna say Dragon Quest Heroes... 2? The like— the, like, Musou game? I think the second Musou game? 
Sylvia: Oh.
Janine: And they all have the same songs in them. And I'm so fucking sick of those songs. And again, I've never played a mainline Drag— And, like, I'm sure some people have a fondness for those songs, but, like... you gotta— you gotta do a remix. You gotta do somethin’. 
Sylvia: Yeah. I, um— 
Janine: Literally anything. 
Sylvia: The first time I heard a lot of them was actually Fortune Street. 
Janine: Hmmm. 
Sylvia: So, I associate them more with that than Dragon Quest. So, I'm always like, “That's weird that this Fortune Street song plays.” 
Janine: [crosstalk] That’s a better association. 
Sylvia: Yeah... [sighs] It is funny, though, cause Final Fantasy 14 is, like, the opposite of Final Fantasy 15, it sounds like with the music cues. Cause 15 just, like, didn't have a soundtrack for a lot of the game. 
Janine: [crosstalk] Oh, that’s weird.
Sylvia: Like, every time you’re driving, it's just you— you— you get C.D.s from, like, car stations with past game soundtracks on them, and you play them in the car. 
Janine: [disappointed] Oh… 
Sylvia: It's, like, charming at first, and then when you realize it's just the soundtracks of the older games, you're a little bit like… ugh. [crosstalk] Though I think they put some NieR songs.
Janine: [crosstalk] The best thing about 14’s music... 
Sylvia: Oh, go ahead. 
Janine: Sorry. What were you gonna say?
Sylvia: They put some NieR songs in a patch. I think, though, which was pretty good. 
Janine: Oh, yeah. Yeah. There's, um… I think Final Fantasy 14’s getting— getting some of that in the next patch. Um, yeah... The 29th, they announced on Friday. The… the fun thing about Final Fantasy 14— I still haven't gotten all the way through the expansion stuff. I'm, like, partway through Heavensward. But the thing that's very fun is that, like, I really like that they have that band, called The Primals, that does the music for the primal fights. And it's all just like, you know, this is the fight that's, like, really snarly rock. And this is the fight that's like... weird and, like, plinky-plunky and... and, like, doing all these weird vocals and stuff. It’s very, like, surprising when you get to the final phases. Like, “Oh, this is not the music that I was expecting in an MMO. Um... that's nice.” 
[0:03:00] [transitional music stinger] 
Austin: It can attack while moving. It can attack from anywhere... What's up? 
Sylvia: You just cut out in the middle of that sentence.
Austin: Oh. Oh, okay. Bard can move and attack. Like, Bard doesn't have casting times. So— so, I hadn't realized, like— now that I'm playing Red Mage, it's like, “Oh, these mov— like, needing to interrupt a cast to move sucks.” [laughs] But— which is good. Which is good. I want that. 
Janine: Red mage, you can mitigate it a lot though, if you're— 
Austin: Yes, yes. 
Janine: If you're, like, doing it properly. Like, if I— I—  Because I haven't been watching videos to learn the loops and stuff, I initially was like, “Wow, this is a long ass cast time.”
Austin: [laughs] Uh huh. Yeah. 
Janine: “Like, they keep casting even after... the things. What the fuck is going on?” And then I was like, “Oh, right. I have to cast this thing that has a really short cast time. And then I get my dual cast, and then I can cast this other thing for free. And then I just go back and forth, and it's fine.” 
Austin: [overlapping] Mhm. 
Janine: I did not get that at first, and it seemed very weird. But I mean, you know, even if you don't have a cast time... You know, it's always either cast or cool down. 
Austin: Yeah, there are cooldowns. 
Janine: So, it’s— Yeah.
Austin: There’s plenty of cooldowns for— [second-guessing] Well... 
Janine: You can— but you can move when you're cooling down, at least. 
Austin: Yeah. The... Bard is so weird. It's interesting, but it's— I don’t know. I'm glad to be getting over it now. 
Janine: White Mage and Astrologian are kind of frustrating because they have a mix of instant things and things that have cast times. And if you do an instant, that cooldown is very frustrating— 
Austin: Mm. 
Janine: Cause it locks you out of doing the things that you need to start a cast for. 
Austin: Right. 
Janine: And that's sort of... [groans] eh. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Janine: That's why I think of the— That's why I tend to think of cooldowns as just like a cast time on the back end, because for me it fucks with that. 
Austin: Right. Right. [quietly] Let me— That’s good. 
Dre: Did you all not get, like, the road to 70 XP buff or anything? 
Austin: I have no idea. 
Janine: I don’t know what that is. 
Dre: Okay. 
Janine: But I think so— I think there is like— there is, like, an XP buff for under 50. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: Yeah, we definitely had that. 
Janine: I don't know the road to— I don't know that. 
Dre: I don't know if that's what it's called. That's what my friends referred to it as. 
Janine and Austin: [simultaneously] Mm. 
Dre: I don't know. I felt like it was something you got for—  
Janine: I think it's like a 100 percent XP buff, if you're under 50. And then after 50, it's like a 50 percent or something. 
Dre: Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's— I think that's what I was thinking of.
Austin: That sounds right.
Janine: Cause I can still— if I do just a dungeon, I can get, like, a level and a half out of that with my level— 
Dre: [overlapping] Okay.
Janine: —55 whatever Astrologian. Which seems a little— That seems like it's gotta be buffing it in some way. 
Dre: Yeah, it is. [laughs] It definitely is. [Janine laughs] Alright. I have time.is open. 
Janine: Me, too. 
Austin: Same… Um, do we wanna clap at 5 after? 
Sylvia: Sure. 
[3 distinct claps] 
Austin: Okay. 
Janine: Did someone just uncork a potion bottle? 
Sylvia: [amused] That was my water bottle. [Austin and Dre laugh]
Janine: Okay. 
[medicine is heard being shaken out of a container]
Austin: [quietly] Just take a Tums real quick.
Sylvia: My H20 potion. [Dre laughs]
Austin: Oh, wow. 
Janine: Hydration potion. 
Austin and Sylvia: [simultaneously] Mhm. 
Janine: That's my Korean skincare regimen.  [Dre and Sylvia laugh]
Austin: Okay.
[0:06:34] [transitional music stinger] 
Janine: Okay, so I— [laughs] the thing that I hate about Heavensward is that you can tell that when they were designing those maps, they were like, “Well, they're going to have flying mounts.”
Dre: Mhm. 
Janine: Because when you don't have the flying mount, or when you don't have flying unlocked for that area— cause have to get all the aether current and that shit— when you are just, like, walking around, it feels like those areas are designed for flying in. Like, it's just there's a lot of little areas where it's just like, “Here's this entire chunk of the map you can only get to by this weird little awkward area that you have to kind of go out of your way to go up.” And it's super fucking annoying. And it's very obvious that it— I don’t— It just— it just— Every one of those areas has felt broken and awful until I've had flying, and then it feels fine. 
Dre: Mhm. And then you're able to fly in it just in time to never go back again. 
Janine: [sighs] Well, I mean, kind of. I... I tend to— Well, I guess they— they lock— they usually lock your last aether current behind a chunk of story, which kind of sucks. 
Dre: Mhm.
Janine: But they do also send you back to areas so often that, like, it still has kind of felt worth it. 
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: I do just wish you'd got it sooner though. 
Dre: Yeah. [overlapped] I mean, it's definitely worth doing for gathering stuff. 
Janine: Or that, like, aether currents were like— I wish the aether currents actually, instead of having to have all of them to fly across the area, I wish it was like, “Well, you have the one in this corner; you can fly in this corner.”
Dre: Uh-oh. 
Janine: You know?
Sylvia: Oh. Okay. 
Austin: I thought that was me. I thought, for sure, that was me.
Dre: I thought— Me, too.
Janine: [unknowingly overlapping everyone] And then as you get more, you can fly across the area more completely.
Dre: Hi, Austin. 
Austin: Hi. 
Sylvia: Hey. 
Austin: How's it going? 
Dre: Good. 
Janine: Did my connection completely die, or does— [laughs] Is this dead silence? [quietly] I think my connection— 
Dre: I'm trying to make the switch to using this new Firefox, and it's— it's really hard to—  
Janine: [quietly] Yeah, it's my connection. 
Austin: From Chrome? 
Dre: Yeah, it's really hard to unlearn, like, the most— like, muscle memory of opening Chrome. 
Austin: [defeated] Yeah. I've been there. I've been there and given up. Unfortunately. [Dre laughs] And should try it again. I really should. 
Dre: All the tracker stuff— the anti-tracker stuff they have in the new one is... making me decide to go back to it. 
Austin: Mm. Mhm.
Janine: Okay. 
Dre: Well, here's a fun thing! 
Austin: Mhm?
Dre: So, as I logged into Roll20 for the first time on Firefox, it's like, “Oh, yeah. We just blocked a tracker.” 
Austin: Oh, wow. 
Dre: So, that's good. 
Austin: Yeah. Great. God.
Dre: Oh... cause there's— there's probably, like, a Twitter— cause they've got, like, the Roll20 dev team Twitter feed on the side here. 
Austin: Oh... yeah. 
Dre: That's probably what it is. Yeah.
Austin: That makes perfect sense, actually. Mhm. 
Dre: Uh, no trackers on time.is. Don't worry. 
Austin: Hell yeah. 
Sylvia: Oh, it’s United Nations day. 
Dre: [intrigued] Oh! 
Sylvia: Oh! And the U.N. — un.org is under maintenance. 
Austin: Mm.
Janine: Oh, I think I’m back. 
Austin: O-R-G. Get that traffic. 
Janine: Am I back? 
Austin: Mm. 
Dre: Janine? 
Janine: Am I not back? 
Austin: Still no, huh?
Janine: No one's responding to anything I say. [laughs]
Sylvia: She’s lit up.
Dre: Yeah, for me, too. 
Sylvia: She is. 
Janine: Fuck. Shit. 
Sylvia: That’s probably a bad sign. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Janine: What if I go on and do this? [clicking] I go in and do that. Hi? [silence] Nope… Nothin’? Diddly. Anything? [silence] [sighs] Fuck. 
Dre: Austin, what’d you do today? 
Austin: I went into the office [Dre hums] to do Waypoint Radio, and then I… I worked on this. I got an argument on— in the Abnormal Mapping discord. 
Sylvia: [sighs] Oh god. 
Dre: Mm. 
Austin: About centrism, and what we mean when we say centrism. So, that was good. Uh… [laughs] And... then now this. Now this. And then I have to do the edit, so that'll be my night. 
Janine: Am I back? What the fuck? 
Austin: Welcome back. 
Janine: Oh. [lightly laughs] 
Dre: Heyyy! 
Sylvia: Hey, now we can hear you. 
Austin: We got you saying, “Fuck.” That was the— 
Janine: Weird. 
Austin: That’s what you— Uh huh.
Janine: My, like, connection dropped, and then I came back. And I could hear everything, but you couldn't hear me.
Austin: Oh. 
Janine: And I changed basically nothing. 
Austin: Huh. 
Janine: And now it's fine?
Dre: Huzzah! 
Austin: Weird. 
Janine: Yeah. 
Austin: God, these outfits. I’m gonna link this thing in PARTIZAN chat. There are some outfits in this thing, I just think that are the most... Sometimes you just gotta have all of the shoulder sleeves. 
Sylvia: Oh wow! 
Austin: Uh huh. 
Sylvia: Oh wow!! 
Janine: Uh... 
Austin: [unsure laugh] Uh huh. Yep. 
Janine: I don't like the faces. 
Austin: Oh, no. They're not good. 
Janine: They’re gross. 
Austin: I mean, well... they're— I think they're deeply intentionally— 
Janine: The bangs are really… It’s really just— 
Austin: Mhm. 
Dre: Oh god! 
Austin: Uh huh. What if a face was just three angles? [laughter]
Janine: It's like they're trying to do the Galaxy Express look, kind of. 
Austin: Mm. 
Janine: But they added just, like—  just like, you know, they reached into the— into the flavor cabinet after they added all of the Galaxy— the Galaxy Express, and then they were reaching for, like, something else to season it, and they got just, like, a pinch of Junji Ito.
Austin: Uh huh. 
Janine: That they just threw in. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Janine: Ooo! I just saw someone's face, and it just really— 
Dre: It— it’s— 
Janine: —maybe more than a pinch. They got, like, a dash… of Junji ito in there— 
Austin: [laughs, overlapping] Uh huh. Mhm. 
Janine: —that they did not mean to. 
Austin: Mhm. 
Janine: Oh, the hand movement, even. The eyes! Oh! The shadows when she looks up!
Austin: It reminds me of... It reminds me a lot of, like, Aeon Flux or Rain, in that like— 
Dre: Oh yeah. 
Janine: [overlapping Austin] Yeah. I don’t like it. It makes me just— 
Austin: —every— every part of the body looks like it might hurt you. 
Dre: Oh.
Janine: My finger has just like— 
Austin: Uh huh. 
Janine: —curled up and tried to, like... protect me. [Austin laughs]
Dre: I do like this robot cocking its giant sniper gun, though. 
Austin: Sniper, like, under— under arm sniper... lance bazooka?
Dre: It like a thing, yeah. 
Janine: You…
Austin: Uh huh. 
Janine: You said that just as a very... I don't— I don't think that was it cocking the gun, but it did reveal a gun as if it were genitals.... as you were explain—  [Austin snorts] as you were saying that thing, and it just…
Dre: Excellent. 
Austin: Uh huh. 
Dre: I’m, like, kind of skipping around here, so what’s the timestamp for this... genitals gun? 
Janine: Um… [laughs] 
Dre: [quietly, overlapped] Don’t worry. I’m recording after I said that.
Janine: It’s, like, really lovingly, sensually done. It's awful. 
Austin: Uh huh. 
Janine: It's at, like, 1:25? 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: Yeah, it's like a spaceship revealing… [Janine laughs] uh... itself. [laughs]
Dre: Oh, yeah. 
Austin: To the camera. Mhm. 
Sylvia: Hm. 
Austin: Spaceships are built a bunch of different ways, alright? [Sylvia and Austin laugh]
Janine: I don't like this. I don't like any part of this except for that— Well, no. I don't like that either. [Austin and Janine laugh]
Austin: Five Star Stories is a very... striking... thing. 
Janine: The proportions of their face keep changing— 
Dre: Ahhh!!!
Janine: —depending on where the camera is. 
Austin: Uh huh. 
Dre: I do not like this face at 1:50. 
Austin: Is that the— is that the super angle one?
Janine: No. 
Sylvia: I just got to that, yeah. It's really bad. 
Austin: Yeah, it's— it's really bad. That's the one where it's like— 
Dre: Somebody squished that face. 
Austin: Yeah, someone— The aspect ratio on that was wrong. And they were like, “Oh, just give me— let me command… drag that.” 
Dre: It looks like they put a vacuum… 
Janine: What is the sound that—
Dre: —in their chin and turned it on— 
Austin: Uh huh. 
Dre: —and sucked, like, from the back of the chin inward. 
Janine: [laughing] The sound the cannon thing makes at 2:10. [still laughing] What is that? 
Austin: Oh, I think it's a person screaming... is what that is. It’s a person saying... “Otalahh![??? 14:30]”
Janine: Oh, that’s a radio. 
Dre: Oh yeah. 
Janine: I thought of the gun was making that sound, and it sounds like— 
Austin: That’s it. [laughs]
Janine: —a person making a sound into a— into, like, a paper towel tube.
Austin: That’s— There was a person who— They had to do all the foley by mouth, which actually makes the rest of the foley sound really good.
Janine: Oh my god. 
Austin:  [coughs] Ugh, alright. Ugh. 
Dre: That's a thing. 
Austin: We should— we should time.is. 
Sylvia: Mhm. 
Janine: When the guy gets blown up, he looks like Hank Hill. Anyway... Um. [Sylvia and Dre laugh hard]
Austin: That's the end. Yeah, that’s the end of King of the Hill. 
Sylvia: [imitating Hank Hill] “Wha?” [everyone laughs]
Austin: [imitating Hank Hill] “Bobby.” He's not very happy. It's very bad. [Janine laughs] Alright. We should clap. Can we clap at the top of the minute?
Sylvia: Sure. 
Dre: Sure. 
Janine: Yeah. 
[4 distinct claps]
Austin: Alright. 
Dre: Clap scared the dog, 
Sylvia: Aw. 
Dre: She's fine. 
[0:15:29] [transitional music stinger]
Janine: We're talking about how the Umbral eras seem— it seems weird to be like, “And that's the end of the Umbral Era… for now.” 
Dre: Huh. Yeah, huh. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: It is, isn’t it? Huh.
Janine: [laughing] The anti-Garlean thing. 
Austin: Why would you ever take that risk in saying it? Like. you're just risking playing yourself. Why would three smart leaders be like, “And that was it. Now it's— The realm is reborn. It's time to move into the next Astral era,” or whatever?
Janine: Define smart, and then also define leaders. [Austin laughs]
Dre: Have they explained yet what the Umbral eras are? 
Austin: Yes! That's my point. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: My point is that the past Umbral eras are have all been about, like, a terrible devastation and the era that follows terrible devastation. And the thing I literally just said to Janine in chat—  in IM was that, like, even the post war period after World War II lasted 15 years. I don't think we've recovered from 9/11 yet in terms of, like, being post that era. You can't just be like, “Five years have passed. We won one fight. Now it is time for the Astral era.” It's bad leadership. It's— it's no foresight. I think a dragon god yelled seconds after they said it. And that god was gonna yell anyway, I'm sure, but now you don't look— [Dre laughs] You wouldn't look like such a fucking fool if you hadn't been like, “And now it's good time party.” Just take the win. You don't have to dedicate it to, like, the future. It can just be like, “Hey, we won that good battle.” That's all. That's all I'm saying. I'm just saying if you put me in charge of Ul’dah, I wouldn't be out here making pronouncements this quickly. 
Janine: Austin, if we put you in charge of Ul’dah, a lot of things would change— 
Austin: Yeah. Uh huh. Guess what? 
Janine: —about Ul’dah. 
Austin: Guess what, merchant class? 
Janine: Sorry, do you mean the monetarists? 
Austin: Yeah. I mean— 
Janine: [faking disbelief] You don't like the monetarists? Austin?
Dre: I think— I don't think there's anything I can say without ruining the story from there.
Austin: Right. I— Yes. 
Janine: Yeah. 
Austin: That's fine. I— I just hope that they get their fucking noses rubbed in it. At this point, I'm rooting for the moon dragon. So.
Janine: The, uh—  the... I don't remember the roar. I think that whole thing was a blur for me cause I was just so desperate to get through it. Um— 
Austin: It's really funny cause I— I sort of missed it. Because it happened so quickly. Everyone is celebrating— 
Janine: It’s just, like, a lot of sound sometimes. 
Austin: And then it goes like, [foley] “Rrrroar.”  And then someone’s like, “Ah, I think a primal’s back.” And, like, you really again jumped to a conclusion there. Maybe it was just a particularly big... whatever— 
Janine: Dog. 
Austin: —Zizgorbin or whatever the fuck [laughs] that enemy name is. 
Janine: [laughs] There are so many different kinds of ziz. Honestly, there are a lot of zizes. Zizes are like the fuckin’ — the fucking, like, stray dogs of this— of that world. 
Austin: Mhm. 
Janine: Yeah. The, like, stuff between Realm Reborn and Heavensward is very— there's a lot of Ul’dah— it's a lot of Ul’dah and a lot of Coerthas. 
Austin: Which one is that? Is that… Catholics? 
Janine: That's the snow. 
Austin: Okay. 
Janine: This is— Those are snow Catholics. Yeah. 
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Gotcha. 
Dre: Mhm. 
Austin: I mean this is— 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: The thing that I— the thing that beating that— that last fight definitely hit me with was a wave of like, “I could have beaten Final Fantasy 12.” Like, I could have beaten that game in the same amount of time and had like— The thing that I kept thinking about those final hours was how I wish this game had— and I know this is coming for Dungeons in the future— but a companion system like—  
Dre: Mhm. Yeah.
Austin: —like a single player JRPG or RPG in general. 
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Or like, the Old Republic where it's like, if I'm supposed to care about these characters, put them in my party and let them banter and let them, like, have little side quests about them. And I know they have some of that stuff, but, like, I wanna spend time with those people. 
Janine: I feel like since the end of Realm Reborn, they get, like, a little better about making those side— maybe it's just a— maybe it's just where I'm at. But it feels like— 
Austin: Yeah. 
Janine: —they try harder to put those people in your path. 
Austin: Right, right. 
Janine: And, like, have them have this feel of like, “They're traveling with you. They just got here first.” And they're, like, standing there. And you can, you know— Like, it feels like they're a little more present. And there's a little bit less, like, running around solo. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Janine: But they still aren't, like, companions. 
Austin: Mhm. 
Janine: But you could get a wind up— a wind-up Alphinaud, and then you have a little, tiny Alphinaud all the time.
Austin: Never in my fucking life. 
Janine: I got a Wind-up Cid and— 
Austin: And I want to be— I'm not supposed to care about him yet, right? That is not— I've not hit a point where I'm supposed to care about him yet?
Janine: No. 
Austin: Okay. 
Janine: No. 
Dre: Harsh. 
Austin: Just wanna make sure. 
Janine: Um, he's—  
Austin: He still sucks. 
Janine: He’s a little wiener. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: He is, yeah. 
Austin: I'm sure he goes through it and make the change. 
Janine: He’s a little weiner, and, like, I’m at the— I'm— The part of the story I'm at now is still the part where they're being like, “Hey, so, Alphinaud’s a little wiener, right?” [Austin and Dre laugh lightly] And that's helping. 
Austin: Yeah. Alright. So, it's— it's all these keys, right? Those are the things? Or horns? Horns and keys? Whistles? 
Janine: Yeah. 
Austin: Whistles?
Janine: It's like dif— it's different for different mounts sometimes.
Dre: [overlapping] Different. 
Austin: [overlapping] For different things? 
Dre: Yeah. Whistles are usually mount calling things. 
Austin: Okay. I see a bunch of things here. Okay. I’m lookin’ at all these. 
Janine: So, there's a horse that plays the titan music. 
Dre: Mhm. 
Janine: And a horse that plays the music for a boss you haven't done yet, I don’t think. 
Austin: Wait. Can I not— ? 
Janine: The big old man with a beard. 
Austin: Can I get these flying mounts even though I can't use them? 
Dre: Yeah. 
Janine: Yeah. They just won't fly. 
Austin: I can walk on them? I can walk on this big bird? 
Janine: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: Okay. 
Dre: Well, I mean the birds are gonna be walking while you sit on it. You're not going to walk on the bird. 
Austin: Okay, well, that’s… Hm. [overlapping] It’s like— 
Janine: It looks cool though. [overlapping] So, you, like, crouch on the back?
Dre: It's like you're not going to do, like, foot chiropractic on the bird. [Janine breathes a laugh]
Austin: Mm. Oh, this dire wolf is hideous.
Janine: The birds are cool, but they’re— Yeah, the dire wolf is bad. [overlapped] I was curious, like— 
Austin: Ah! This calvary elbst is also bad! [laughs]
Janine: Yeah. Yeah. 
Austin: Look at his long snout.
Janine: They’re not good.There is a reason I'm only interested in the birds and the horses. 
Austin: I think I want to get one of these.
Janine: Cause everything else is a fucking monster. 
Austin: Oh, I never want to ride a goobbue [gah-boo] ever. A goobbue. [goo-boo] 
Dre: Oh, yeah. 
Janine: Oh, yeah. The big— the big tree?
Dre: Aw, come on. 
Austin: No. 
Dre: Aw, come on! 
Janine: Eh. 
Austin: A laurel goobbue mount? No.
Dre: He’s just— he’s just a big tree men.
Austin: He's too big. 
Dre: Wow. 
Austin: Actually, wait. Um, it's hard to tell if he's big. [overlapped] Wait, he can fly?
Dre: [quiet, overlapped] He’s a tree— 
Janine: I mean, on the other hand, your— your character is big, so… 
Austin: I’m not riding a goobbue around. 
Janine: [overlapped, dejected] Alright, fine. 
Dre: All the— all the mounts can fly pretty much. 
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Oh, weird. 
Janine: I think the exception is, like, your original chocobo, but then you do some quests, and then it can fly. 
Dre: [interjecting] And then they can fly, yeah. 
Austin: Mm. 
Janine: And, like, maybe do— wha— Does the Final Fantasy 15 car fly? It must. It probably does.
Dre: It does. It sure does.
Austin: I mean, it does in Final Fantasy 15. 
Dre: It does. 
Janine: Well, okay. 
Dre: And it’s— As far as I know, it's the only mount in the game that can have more than 2 people on it. Cause they can seat— 
Austin: Oh, that’s appropriate. 
Janine: Ooo. 
Dre: I think it can seat 4? 
Janine: Damn. 
Austin: They fuckin’ better be able to. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: You can't get that from this, right? 
Janine: No. 
Dre: No. That was, like, a limited time event. Yeah. 100 percent.
Austin: Yeah. You better be. You can, right? 
Dre: Well... I don't think you can anymore cause that event’s over. Like, I don't have that car cause I missed that event when it was running. 
Austin: [overlapping] Right, right, right. But if you got— Yeah.
Janine: [overlapping] I gotta be honest, every time I see that car, I hate it. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Janine: Like, one of the first things that happened to me when I was playing this game was I was just, like, standing around, and someone— I wonder if I still have a screenshot— someone just, like, pulled up beside me in one of those cars [lightly laughs] with their, like, arm hanging out the side. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Janine: And it was, like, very funny, but also, I don't want that in the ga— I don't want that in my experience. Thank you. 
Austin: The falcon mount is very funny to me because I'm sure it looks better if it's flying, [Dre hums agreement] but if it doesn't, it just looks like a kid's toy. It looks like a power wheels. It looks like a retro futuristic toy you would get a kid. [quietly] I’m gonna link you.
Dre: I feel like it's also very similar to, like, a mount you get later in the story. 
Austin: Oh really? 
Dre: But I don't remember. 
Janine: Probably, yeah. A lot of those are, like, re-color sometimes.
Austin: Yeah, I can see that. 
Dre: The— 
Janine: I mean, like, the birds and the horses are dungeon drops technically, I think. 
Dre: Yeah. The horses, I think, are— are trial drops. Like, that's why, like, one plays the titan music. 
Janine: They’re, like, extreme trials. So fuck that. 
Austin: Mhm. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Sylvia: That's how it should be in real life. You have to go through an extreme trial to get your horse. [Janine and Austin breathe laughs]
Dre: Yes. Oh no. Yeah. Okay. 
Austin: [quiet, overlapped] Do I want the sophic lanner? Is that what I want? That’s probably what I want.
Dre: That one. I forgot that that’s the ship. Cause there's a literal falcon that you get later in the game. 
Austin: Oh wow. Why— I don't care about seeing the drop. I want to see the mount. Why would I want to see the drop? 
Dre: [mumbled laugh] Hm-hm.
Janine: Yeah, there's a lot of pictures that— I— I really I don't understand why when I look up a thing— Oh, I found that fuckin’ picture. I don't understand why when I look up a thing, like, I want to see what this mount is, and you're just showing me this fucking whistle. Like, I— 
Austin: Well, this is even just— this is just—  I search for sophic [soh-fic] lanner— sophic [sah-fic] lanner, and the top video result was them doing the dungeon and getting the drop. 
Janine: Mm. 
Austin: God, that's so funny. [Janine laughs] I gotta get one of those cars. I gotta buy it. Catch me on eBay. 
Janine: [laughs] I mean, look, he's— he's in there. And it looks— it's sized right for him. 
Austin: He's— Yeah. 
Janine: He doesn’t look too big in there. 
Austin: He does not look too big. 
Dre: You can buy the motorcycle from Final Fantasy 7. 
Austin: I saw that and considered spending real money on it. [overlapped] And then did not.
Dre: [whispering] I already did. 
Austin: Great. 
Dre: I was— 
Austin: [amused] Good. 
Dre: I was a little drunk. 
Austin: That's fair. It happens. [overlapped] You can get a red bike.
Dre: And then I bought that whale when it went on sale. 
Austin: Hm. Yeah. Fair. 
Dre: Have you seen the whale? 
Austin: No, I don't think I have.
Janine: It’s very big. 
Dre: It's so big. 
Austin: Is that a thing my big lion body could fit on? 
Dre: Yes, 100 percent. 
Austin: See? This is the— this is the dilemma. 
Janine: I feel like I'm not gonna— I truly don't want the whale now. But I'm sure as soon as I get to the water area—  
Austin and Dre: yeah. 
Janine: —I'm gonna be like, “Oh, I want that fuckin’ whale. I wanna be ridin’ the whale.” 
Dre: It's— Honestly, the best thing that happened was I bought the whale, and then I could use it in PVP and make it so that people couldn't fuckin’ see anything. [Sylvia laughs] Cause there was just this giant whale.
Austin: Oh, that's very funny. 
Janine: That's pretty funny. 
Austin: It's bad, but it's great. 
Dre: Listen, no one was there to actually enjoy PVP. 
Austin: Right. Everyone is just— Oh wow. That’s a big whale. 
Dre: Mhm. 
Austin: You could have a party on that wha— Oh, wow! You can. You literally can have a party on that whale. [Janine laughs]
Dre: Yeah, you can sit 2 people on that whale. 
Austin: I was joking. And then I got— I jumped ahead, and there was people just having a picnic on this whale. 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Dre: Makes a good whale noise when you— 
Austin: Is there music? 
Dre: —when you summon it. Yeah there is. It's not very good. 
Austin: Nice. Mm.
Dre: The motorcycle plays, like, the Final Fantasy 7 motorcycle chase music, which is pretty good. 
Austin: Yes. Yes, that is pretty good. I did see that. You can't get that from this, though, right? That's only money. 
Dre: Yeah, that's only— 
Austin: Yeah. I'll probably do one more event and then get one of these birds. Do the birds have different music? 
Janine: The birds are 50. 
Austin: Fuck off. [Janine laughs] I'm not getting— 
Janine: Yeah. 
Austin: I'm just gonna— I'm just gonna quit. [Austin and Janine laugh] I guess I'll quit instead.
Dre: I wonder how many of those I have at this point. 
Janine: It's worth looking cause you can’t cash ‘em in forever. 
Austin: Mhm. Do they not cycle? 
Janine: Oh, I guess they come back. 
Austin: Yeah, I was gonna say. They must, right?
Janine: I think they do cycle, yeah.
Dre: They do cycle, but you can't use— Like, you can— I don't think— the vendor doesn't disappear, or at least— 
Austin: The vendor doesn't, but, like, right now, I can talk to the vendor and spend either myth— tomestones of mythology or tomestones of philosophy. And I don't have any of those. And that was, like, the previous event’s thing. 
Janine: Yeah. 
Austin: So. But I did get a bunch of other tomestones while doing the last few quests. 
Dre: Actually, I think— 
Austin: So, I’m hoping—  
Janine: Yeah, those are for— those you can spend in uh... Mor Dhona. 
Austin: Ah, I see. 
Janine: At what's-her-name. There's, like, those 2 booth stand things. 
Dre: Yeah. I think— 
Janine: You can buy stuff from them. 
Dre: I don't think anything drops— 
Janine: [overlapping] That’s how you get your higher level gear.
Austin: [overlapping] Poetics.
Dre: —philosophy anymore. Cause I think all that got turned into poetics. 
Austin: Got you. 
Dre: Basically every time they release a new expansion, they release two types of tomestones. And then when they release a new one, they just incorporate all the old tomestones into poetics. 
Austin: Gotcha. 
Janine: Oh yeah. You can convert those at what's— at the same person that you can trade them in to for that gear. For the, like, higher level gear that'll get you ready for... 
Austin: [overlapping] Whatever the next— Yeah.
Janine: —for the next set of stuff. 
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Gotcha. 
Janine: I think that's why they make you— 
Austin: [overlapping] Oh, that’s where I can get— 
Janine: —why they unlock so many dungeons for you. 
Austin: Got it.
Janine: Cause it's like, “You need to get this fuckin’ gear. So, here’s some stuff.”
Austin: You have to spend so many of these to get the set that I want, which is like the shire philosopher set. 
Dre: Oh yeah, that's a good set. 
Austin: It's a cool looking set. I don't want a top hat. I can't wear the top hat anyway, but I can wear, like, the long coat. 
Sylvia:  [whispered] God.
Dre: I ended up switching away from being a big cat because I was sick of nothing—  
Austin: [overlapping] Fitting your head?
Dre: —looking good on my character. 
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, it's rough. You've got to really— I mean, like, I'm level whatever 54 now— 53 now, so I'm just stuck with it. Like, I'm not gonna reroll at this point. 
Janine: Oh, this shire philosopher thing is also post-Heavensward, so you don't need to— you'll have tomestones for it by then. 
Austin: Okay. Wait, is it? 
Janine: You’re gonna wanna— 
Austin: Does Heavensward only go to 60?
Dre: [simultaneously with Janine] Heavensward only goes to 60.
Janine: [simultaneously with Dre] Heavensward ends at 60, yeah. 
Austin: Ohhh okay. 
[crosstalking begins]
Dre: Yeah, it’s— 
Austin: For some reason I thought it was— 
Janine: I just got into the area that has this stuff.
Dre: 10 levels per expansion. 
Austin: Gotcha, gotcha, gotcha, gotcha. 
Janine: So, you— The stuff you want is the ironworks set. 
Austin and Dre: Mm. 
Janine: That’ll— that does you for a little bit in Heavensward stuff. 
Austin: I— That stuff might not be as— that stuff might be only as good as the stuff I started with because of buying the— 
Janine: [realizing] Right. 
Austin: Because of starting as the thing. Like, I don't know. I’ll have to check. 
Dre: [whispers] Oh man.
Janine: I mean, it is— it is... better. 
Austin: It is— Okay. Yeah.
Janine: It's good, but it's probably— I mean, you can just see what stuff's better for you. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Janine: If you want a fancy sword, that's— they’ll give you fancy sword. There's not a lot of fancy swords to choose from at that stage. 
Austin: I will say this is probably the thing that is like the biggest, not bummer, but like, the item— the itemization being so much about... this and not about any other way of [laughs] getting good stuff is... I mean, I know it's an MMO, but it's like I want there to— there are other ways to do itemization in MMOs where you can get excited in the middle of completing content. You know? 
Janine: Mhm.
Austin: But... it is what it is. Anyway, we should do a thing. 
Dre: Which of these horses should I get? Cause I do have 30. 
Austin: Mm. 
Janine: I mean, it depends. For me, the choice is like, which song do you like more, the titan song or the old man... what's-his-name song? 
Dre: Uh, Ramun? 
Austin: Ram— Ramuh? Yeah.
Janine: Ramuh. His like… er, his— 
Austin: Wait, is there literally not in a red mage ironworks set? There isn’t. That explains that.
Dre: No, there is not.
Janine: You have to use caster. 
Austin: Oh. 
Janine: The like... you know, it's... 
Austin: Okay. 
Janine: It's like there's a healing set, and there's a casting set. 
Austin: Mhm. 
Janine: And you would use the casting set. 
Austin: I see. 
Janine: The important thing is that they actually have the weapon for it. 
Dre: Oooo, one’s a purple horse. 
Austin: Mm.
Janine: Yeah. [quietly] Oh, there’s the— 
Sylvia: Who can say no to a purple horse? 
Austin: Right? 
Dre: Uh huh. 
Janine: It's a cool—
Dre: Not me.
Janine: It does, like, lightning and stuff. 
Dre: I'm gonna buy this purple horse. [Austin laughs]
Janine: I have to get the purple horse. That's my last goal for that event.
Dre: There. That's all of my things. 
Austin: There you go. 
Dre: And I'm logging back out. [Austin laughs] It’s the first time I've logged into this game in, like two weeks. [laughs] I’m good. Now I'm fresh for when that YoRHa raid drops this week. 
Austin: Are you all the way there? 
Dre: I mean, the only thing I have left to do in that game content-wise is the hard mode versions of the last two trials— 
Austin: Mhm. 
Dre: —and the eight man raids. 
Janine: Y’all caught up on your post moogle stuff?
Dre: Excuse me? Post moogle?
Austin: I don’t know what that means.
Janine: Post moogle? [amused] You— you didn’t do the post moogle quest? 
Dre: What is the— what? Oh. 
Janine: It is, like, a mailman moogle. 
Dre: No, I— No. I’m not— 
Janine: And they're like, “Can you go give this letter to this person that you did a quest for 30 levels ago, maybe?”
Austin and Dre: No. 
Janine: “And if you didn't do that quest, you should go do that quest, and then you'll get this thing—” 
Dre: Should I? 
Janine: I don't know. I'm sure it leads somewhere. But so far, it’s led nowhere. 
Austin: [overlapping]  Does it give me a postal van? If it doesn’t— If it gives me, like, a postal delivery truck, then I'll do it. 
Janine: I got a baby mole out of it... that I orphaned. 
Austin: Mm. I’m not—  Yeah, see?
Janine: I orphaned it and delivered it to a scientist. 
Sylvia: Wow!!
Austin: No. 
Janine: And the scientist abused it, basically, to prove that they could sense— Like, she, like, hit the ground around it a lot with a hammer. [Austin groans] And it was not good. And then she was like, “Aha! I knew it. Moles can sense danger through their eyes, even though they can't see,” or something. And then she was like, “Okay, whatever. You can eat this or something. I don't want it anymore.” 
Austin: Mm…
Dre: Hm.
Janine: So, that was not great. 
Dre: I mean, one of the first ever of the little minions that you get is a quest where you go kill a bunch of, like, adult lion things, and then you get the lion cub as a minion. 
Austin: Yeah, that's true. That is true. That is the pet I have now for my entire thing. 
Janine: Oh. Yeah, I didn't I didn't read that quest at the time. [laughs]
Austin: Uh huh. 
Janine: I just did it. 
Dre: I don't blame ya. 
Austin: Um, alright. We should time.is. 
Janine: Mhm.
Dre: I've got a little otter. 
Sylvia: [intrigued] Ooo.
Austin: [intrigued] Oh. 
Dre: It's called the Odder otter. 
Janine: Oh. 
Sylvia: Like, O-D-D-E-R? 
Austin: [overlapping] O-D-D-E-R?
Dre: Mhm. 
Sylvia: Oh, that's fun. 
Austin: Yeah. Alright. Um… [clicking noises] Aw, that's cute. 
Janine: Oh, that is cute. 
Sylvia: [quietly] Oh, that’s great, yeah.
Austin: Uh, 15?
Sylvia and Dre: Sure. 
[3 claps together, one slightly behind]
Austin: Okay. 
[0:32:20] [transitional music stinger]
Keith: How's it going, everyone? 
Austin: Hi. Okay. That's a— that's a recording. 
Keith: That's a recording. 
Austin: That's what recordings look like. 
Keith: That's what we in the biz call a recording. 
Austin: Oh, is that what we call a recording? 
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: Hi. 
Keith: Yep. Well, if you're in the biz. 
Austin: Only if you're in the biz. 
Keith: I think we're in the biz. It's been a while. 
Jack: What biz are we in?
Austin: The biz.
Keith: Podcast biz. 
Jack: The podcast biz?
Sylvia: Showbiz baby.
Austin: Is that the biz— Oh, showbiz. Okay. [laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: Baby. 
Jack: Oh, showbiz baby. 
Austin: We’re in the show— we’re in the showbiz baby.
Keith: We’re in all of showbiz. 
Austin: We’re in baby showbiz. That adds up. 
Jack: Right. 
Austin: That makes sense to me. 
Sylvia: Death Stranding’s really hot right now. We've gotta get— 
Austin: [interjecting] And the Yoda!
Sylvia: We gotta strike when the iron is hot. 
Austin: Both. We got babies are— Babies are big. 
Sylvia: Yeah. That's a— that’s a fucking puppet. That's, like, not CGI, apparently. 
Keith: Yeah, that’s— 
Austin: That’s a baby. 
Keith: Yeah. It is a baby.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s a baby. 
Austin: They got a baby. 
Keith: It's really cute. They did a good job. 
Austin: I haven’t seen it yet.
Keith: It’s so— 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: I need to fuckin’ watch the baby show. 
Keith: It's heartbreaking. It's heartbreakingly beautiful. 
Austin: That is—  [laughs] that's what Wernor said. So, I believe— I believe. 
Keith: On— only Werner Herzog would— would use the word “heartbreaking” when what he means is, “It's cute.” 
Austin: It's heartbreaking to look at. I haven't seen it in context, but just seeing it— It does m— I suspect Werner and I have— we're— we’re of a kind, you know? 
Keith: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Kindred spirits.
Austin: In the same way, you know I have a hard time looking at, like, cute animals who are like... want something they can't get. I bet you Werner, similarly, is like, “I can't even look at this child, this Yoda baby without feeling like there is some, like, unfulfilled desire in its heart,” you know? 
Keith: Right. And how—  and what can you do? It has no heart. 
Austin: It has— [laughs]
Keith: What can you do about that feeling? 
Austin: What can you do about it? And this is why it is heartbreaking. Imagine I did all of that in a Werner Herzog impression, which—  
Keith: Oh, did— 
Art: Now I wanna call it “Yoda, baby,” like a— like a TV agent. 
Austin: [laughing] Yeah. 
Keith: [imitating a TV agent] “Yoda, baby!” 
Austin: [trying to imitate] “Yoda—” [laughs too hard] 
Art: [actually initiating a TV agent] “Yoda. Baby. We're gonna get you 10 points on the back.” [Austin laughs] 
Keith: This is— hold on. My— my mic’s a little hot. 
Sylvia: I just dropped my water bottle. Give me one sec. 
Keith: I— 
Austin: That makes me want Yoda to then— to be in Yoda voice, but be kind of like a money-grubbing superstar, you know? [laughs] Like, um… how would— how would— 
Keith: Baby Yoda— Yoda baby doesn't get outta bed for less than 10 mil.
Austin: Well, no, cause you have to do— Cause—  
Jack: You mean, “Get out of bed, Yoda baby doesn't.” 
Austin: [laughing] Yes. Yes, exactly. Jack. [Keith laughs] Thank you. 
Art: [imitating a Yoda groan] “Mmm.”
Jack: Oh, no. [laughs]
Austin: [laughs] We— 
Keith: How would that— how would— Okay. How would that be structured in the Yo— in Yoda?
Austin: This is what we're trying to figure out
Keith: In Yoda's species. 
Austin: In Yoda species. 
Keith: Which is, by the way, you know—  
Austin: Right. 
Keith: —from those first couple movies, very exaggerated. Yoda mostly talks in regular sentences. 
Austin: But sometimes— 
Jack: But when he does— 
Keith: But sometimes—  
Jack: —is the thing. 
Austin: But when he— Okay. 
Jack: Imagine if every 1 in 10 sentences, Austin spoke, he flipped the clauses on- 
Austin: Right. 
Jack: —everyone would be like, “What is Austin doing for his entire life?” 
Austin: [imitating Yoda] “Built them like anything, we could have.” 
Jack: But hang on— Wait, a second. [Jack and Austin laughs] You know how— So, a story that I love about the Great British Baking Show in its early seasons is that Mel and Sue, the original host—  
Austin: Mhm. 
Jack: —cared so much about the bakers that when the bakers were experiencing emotional distress— 
Austin: Wait. 
Jack: —that they knew— Mhm?
Austin: You— you meant hosts, right? There are 2 hosts. There's not a host called— 
Jack: Yeah, what do they call them? 
Keith: 2 hosts and 3 judges.
Austin: Okay. I thought you’d said— 
Jack: Oh, right, right, right. 
Austin: I thought you said Melon Sue. 
Jack: No, no, no. [overlapped] Mel and Sue.
Austin: And I was like, “I thought it was Mel and Sue. But then they said— then they said, ‘the original host.’” And so, I thought for a moment I was— I thought maybe— 
Jack: Ah, Melon Sue.
Austin: Right. Okay.
Keith: I heard it, too. I heard it: Mel Ensue. Like, E-N-S-U-E. 
Austin: Oh, right. Well, that's what Mel says when— 
Art: Oh, I heard Mel and Sue. 
Austin: That's when Mel is launching their— their mech. They go, “Mel, ensue.” [laughs] And that’s—  
Sylvia: Oo.
Jack: And then— Aw, it's great. 
Austin: Yeah, well anyway, finish your story. Sorry.
Jack: Um… they would— When— when they knew producers were hoping to get, like, exploitative footage of contestants melting down, Mel and— Mel— ‘Melon Sue’ would go over and comfort them, swearing loudly the whole time— 
Austin: Great.
Jack: —to ensure that all footage was instantaneously ruined—  
Austin: Ah, love it. 
Keith: Wow.
Jack: —and unable to be broadcast on the BBC. Anyway. I feel like I want to do something similar for us trying to work out how to say, “We could have built them to look like anything, but we made them look like us” said in Yoda language. Is there something we can say to ensure that this just does not make it ever onto our recording? 
Austin: No, it's impossible. [laughs] It's impossible. 
Jack: We’re just—  [laughs] We’re just done.
Austin: It’s just— 
Jack: My bank account number is... [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Yeah, exactly. Yes. Um… Let me just check one thing. And then  I think I'm good to go. I need to write... Okay. Here we go. 
Art: I don't know. Is that before or after the 30 Rock bit where Liz and Tracy fought while singing copyrighted songs so that they couldn’t get on— 
Jack: [amused] Oh wow. 
Austin: Oh, that's funny. 
Jack: That's really good. I wonder if— what's— So, that was in fiction in 30 Rock, right? 
Art: Yeah. 
Jack: I love that if that is the case, Mel and Sue saw that and were like, “We can do that IRL in our actual broadcast show.” Apparently the new seasons fucking suck. Which is like— 
Keith: Does it have— does it have Paul Hollywood? 
Jack: It does. Paul Hollywood, world's worst man. 
Keith: I hate that guy. That’s— Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Austin: Woah, wait. Who— who is this guy? Who's this guy? 
Jack: [overlapped] Oh, this guy is like— 
Keith: He's one of the judges. He's such a mean... [overlapped] piece of shit. 
Jack: He's, like, a condescending, British baker man... who spends most of his time being like, “I'm so good at baking. And you all have to, like, bow to my baking ability.” 
Austin: Mm. 
Jack: Fucking sucked. 
Art: [overlapped] I have a question. 
Jack: He is also apparently, like, a real piece of shit behind the scenes. 
Keith: He's a real piece of shit in front of the scenes, too. It’s not— 
Jack: It’s true. 
Keith: Not a hard— not a hard sell. 
Art: Is Paul Hollywood his— his given name? 
Jack: That is a great question. 
Keith: [overlapped] It is, I believe. 
Jack: I— Yeah, I believe he is actually called Paul Hollywood. 
Keith: When I was watching a season of that show— 
Art: That’s— No one— no one named Paul Hollywood was going to turn out okay. 
Keith: Yeah, I think— I think that's 100 percent. It's like “the clothes make the man.” But it's this guy's bad name. Um, but yeah, when I first saw that show, I had to look up whether that was his real name and was, like, very surprised that it was. 
Jack: It is. It is. It is. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: It is. That's pretty spectacular. His parents were bakers. 
Austin: Mm. 
Jack: His father was John F Hollywood, and his mother was Gillian M Harman. 
Keith: [interjecting] You know what that means is there’s a— 
Jack: A much more normal person name. 
Keith: There's a dynasty of actors called the Breadman— the Breadbakers in Hollywood. 
Sylvia: Not just Baker. 
Jack: Yeah. 
Austin: [overlapping] Not— Yeah. Breadbaker. 
Keith: [overlapping] Not just Baker. Breadbaker. 
Jack: Mm. 
Austin: Yeah, Breadbake— Roy Breadbaker.
Jack: As opposed to Breadboy. 
Austin: [amused] That's Yoda’s— that's Yoda’s agent. That’s Yoda baby’s agent. 
Jack: Roy Breadbaker? 
Austin: “Yoda, baby, it's me. Roy Bread Baker here.” 
Keith: They try to— Okay. I won't say anything. It's good. 
Austin: Okay. Uh... Alright. we should record a podcast. We should time.is. 
Jack: Let’s do it.
Austin: We've done this bit before, right? 
Jack: Hm? 
Keith: Which one? 
Austin: That today is both International Men's Day and World Toilet Day? 
Sylvia: [amused] Oh.
Jack: I'm sure the internet done that bit. 
Art: Yeah, we've recorded on—  we've recorded on Men's Toilet Day before. 
Austin: [laughs] Yeah. 
Sylvia: Wow. They really announced the game award nominations on World Men's Day, huh? [Jack laughs]
Austin: [groans] Oh, it's true. Alright. 
Jack: That's great. Death Stranding’s gonna win. 
Austin: Probably. 
Art: A+ quote. 
Austin: A great quote today, yeah. Do you want wanna read it, Art? 
Art: From— It’s uh, “The future ain't what it used to be.” By baseball poet, Yogi Berra. 
Austin: Love— I love a good baseball poet. 
Jack: Mm. 
Austin: We should, uh, clap. Do you wanna clap? 
Sylvia: Sure. 
Austin: Uh, 15? 15 seconds? 
[several claps in 2 similar timings]
Austin: Okay. 
Jack: Oof. 
Austin: That was a little— 
Art: That sounded like garbage. 
Austin: Yeah, I was a little late. 
Sylvia and Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Let’s do more at 25, just to be safe. 
Jack: Dare you. 
[4 distinct claps heard in succession]
Austin: That was, like, a different type of not great, but it's fine. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: We’ll rig in the changes, you know?[??? 40:18] 
Austin: Yeah, exactly. Give Ali a selection. 
Sylvia: Like that dragging scene in Whiplash with getting these claps right today. 
Austin: [laughs] I can't believe that you replaced me with what's the actor's name? What's— what's— 
Jack: J.K. Simmons? 
Austin: Simmons. Yeah. J.K. Simmons presents Friends at the Table. 
Sylvia: God. 
Austin: He could do it… to be honest. 
Jack: I mean, if he was reading a script, he'd rule. It’d be great. Guy’s got a good voice. 
Keith: He has a very good voice. I got a— Hold on. Before we actually start. I got a dial in this microphone. 
Austin: Alright. You dial. 
Keith: This is not right. Okay. Let me mute while I make some weird noises. So I don’t hurt anybody.
Sylvia: We're just gonna use the um… this Google sheet, as our characters, right? 
Austin: Correct. There is no in... in Roll20. 
Keith: [in the background] Ooo, boy. 
Austin: There is a Roll20— there is a Roll20... Roll20 for y’all to be in. 
Sylvia: Yeah. I’m in there.
Austin: Alright, good. It's linked in the main chat from, like, yesterday, I wanna say. But also— er the other day— but also, everyone should be— 
Jack: We should be in it already, right?
Austin: Everyone should be in it already. I think the only person in this call who was not was Sylvia[1], and Sylvia joined it. So. It should just be there in your Roll20 list. 
Art: And Ali and Dre are here. 
Austin: [laughs lightly] Yeah. Uh huh. Just— just for fun.
Jack: Oh, fuck. Hang on. Wait a second. My P.C. is in the shop, so I'm recording this on my Mac. 
Austin: Uh huh. 
Jack: And because I sent my P.C. into the shop, I uninstalled Last Pass from my browser. [laughs] 
Austin: Ah. Which means you don't have your password for... 
Jack: Well, I don't have it auto-filling. 
Austin: Right. 
Jack: Let me just open it on my phone and try and do this. 
Austin: Okay. 
Sylvia: Roll20 is, like, really easy to get your thing back. It's, like... You just— They just send you, like, a log-in email, and it logs you in. And then you can change it. 
Keith: What is that?
Dre: Fan fav.
Jack: Oh jeez, that doesn't sound good. 
Sylvia: Yeah? At least that’s what happened when I used it.
Keith: I do all my banking through Roll20, so that doesn't inspire confidence. [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. [Austin laughs]
Austin: You just have a Roll20 game set up, and you just, like, take screenshots and send it into the bank. 
Keith: Yeah. Yep. Or I do— I draw... I use the— the GM tools to draw a picture of a check and use mobile deposit. 
Jack: Mm. 
Austin: Right. Okay. 
Keith: And that's just all saved in clip art. Anybody with my Roll20 could find that. 
Austin: [lightly laughs] You just do a search. But is at a premium asset? Do I have to, like, search for Keith's— Keith info and then pay seven dollars or something? 
Jack: [overlapped] Hell yeah. I’m in.
Keith: Yeah, but you can— you can find it on Google Images. It's really easy. [Austin groans] So, I guess maybe at that point, Roll20’s not even my problem. You can just find check images of mine on Google Images. 
Austin: Gotcha. How is your microphone? Are you— are you dialed? 
Keith: Yeah, I'm dialed. Oh, I'm dialed. 
Austin: Were we waiting for Sylvia? Was somebody else also stepping away? 
Sylvia: No, I'm in. 
Austin: Okay.
Jack: I was just logging into Roll20.
Austin: Oh, right. Jack. We were waiting on Jack. 
Jack: I'm in. I’m in.
Austin: Oh, you're in. 
Jack: Yeah. 
Austin: Okay. Wait. Are you? 
Keith: I had— 
Austin: I don't see you here. 
Jack: It's loading. 
Austin: Okay. 
Keith: I was— 
Austin: I also don't see Keith here. 
Keith: Oh, did I not do that?
Austin: Uh-un.
Keith: Did I open... 
Austin: You’re not—  
Keith: Oh, I did the thing where I go to Roll20, but I don’t—  
Austin: Yeah, but you gotta do that second bit. 
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, okay. 
Keith: It's like GrubHub. [Sylvia breathes a quiet laugh]
Austin: Mhm. It's basically the same thing. Like, you know, you wanna make sure you get the order through otherwise... 
Keith: Yeah. 
[0:43:29] [transitional music stinger]
Austin: Listen, Desperate’s good.  
Art: [quiet, overlapped] Except you play longer than 5 minutes. 
Austin: Get some XP that way. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Oh, yeah. It’s— You— 
Keith: Well, you just—  
Austin: It can be longer than 5 minutes, Art. [amused] I know you've to give a dog a walk. 
Art: Yeah. 
Austin: That's fine. 
Art: See ya, Austin. 
Jack: Should be clap now or just when we get back? 
Austin: Let's clap when we get back. 
Art: I should just leave audacity running, right? 
Austin: Yes, 100 percent. 
Art: Tell me— Text me if you hear something bad happening in my house. 
Austin: Okay. Will do. 
Jack: [laughs] Okay. God. 
Keith: What does that mean?
Jack: What if Art just comes back... early? He comes back really quickly, and we keep going, and then Art comes back again? 
Austin: Oh, that’s be— 
Sylvia: Ahhh.
Austin: That would be great. 
Jack: I'm gonna go get some more coffee. 
Keith: Um… Austin, I'm sure that you know this, but Sylvia, the Dare— Oh, Sylvia, you probably know the Daredevil move, too, because we used it at the live show. 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Keith: Though when you roll a desperate action, you get plus one to your roll, if you also take minus one to any— sorry, one— plus one die, if you also take minus one die at any resistance roll. 
Austin: Mhm. 
Keith: Or exhaust an additional quirk. But then, I have the thing that negates that additional quirk. It's perfect. 
Austin: It's great. 
Keith: It's almost too good, actually. 
Sylvia: I just went for getting an extra box of stress with my first move. 
Austin: Yeah, I love that! 
Sylvia: Because I really want to lean into just pushing all the time. 
Austin: Yeah. She is gonna— 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: It is good that you have this character who is just like, “Yeah, I can take a little bit more.” 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: Alright. 
Sylvia: I'm gonna go grab a snack. Art’s... probably gonna be like, what? 
Austin: [overlapping] Yeah, Art’s gonna be, like, 10 minutes.
Sylvia: [overlapping] 15? 10?
Austin: 15—  Yeah,10, 15 minutes. I might run and get a coffee, actually. 
Sylvia: Okay. I'll try and be quick. 
Austin: So, I’m gonna go do that. Alright. Sounds good. I’ll BRB, also. 
Keith: Hello. 
Art: Hi. 
Keith: What’s up, Art? How's it going? 
Art: Good. Good. It started raining, so Mabel refused to go on a walk. So, I, uh, had a shorter trip than I thought. 
Keith: It was— Not a— not a zero time trip? 
Art: No, she still has to go, but…
Keith: Okay. That makes sense.
Art: If she doesn't want to go around the block, I'm not gonna make her. 
Keith: Yeah. I, uh— Although, you know, I... there was a conspiracy theory about you coming back way shorter than you meant to, and it being a secret second Art. [overlapped] And that was what— 
Jack: Yeah. Like I sort of... 
Keith: [overlapping] Which I think might be the— 
Jack: [overlapping] Like a frightening double. 
Keith: Which I think might be the case... 
Jack: Oh shit. 
Keith: Jack, I don’t know if you heard. 
Jack: Is he back early? 
Keith: Yeah. He was back a lot earlier because it started— er, it conveniently started raining. 
Jack: Oh dear.
Keith: And then all of a sudden Mabel didn't want to go for a walk. [Jack laughs] So, I think this might be— 
Jack: Oh dear.
Keith: I think this might be the second Art. 
Jack: Art, tell us something only you— 
Keith: Only the primary you— 
Jack: —only we know you know. 
Keith: —would know.
Jack: Yeah. 
Art: Um.
Austin: I am back. 
Jack: Hi, Austin! Art’s back early. 
Austin: Oh, nice. Wait, is it the real Art? 
Keith: Yeah. Exactly. 
Art: We're trying to— I'm tryin’ to prove that I'm me, and it's really hard. 
Austin: Are you Dan or Casey? 
Jack: Sorry? [laughs]
Art: Um… am I allowed to Google the thing you're talking about? 
Austin: Ooo, that's a bad— that’s bad. That's a bad point to make. 
Keith: That’s bad. [Jack laughs] 
Austin: That’s not great. 
Keith: That's bad. 
Art: Wait, wait. But I know— I know what you're referring to. 
Austin: Uh huh. You just need to review— you’re trying to decide who is who.
Art: Right. I'm trying— I need to review that particular media property 
Austin: Right. I’ll allow it. 
Keith: I don't know. That sounds like the real Art would know. 
Jack: What are you weirdos talking about? 
Austin: Don’t worry about it. 
Keith: I don't know, but Art’s the only one that needed to know. 
Art: Uh, we're talking about the Aaron Sorkin sitcom…
Austin: Uh huh. 
Art: —Sports Night.
Austin: Sports Night. 
Keith: Was that a com? 
Austin: That was a com.
Jack: It was a sit. 
Austin: That was a sitcom. 
Art: Definitely a sit. 
Austin: It’s both a sit and a com. We're doing— This is— this is the cadence. “Is that a com? Definitely a com. Definitely a sit. It’s a sit.”
Keith: I can't be doing the cadence because I've never seen a single episode of anything Aaron Sorkin's ever made. 
Austin: It doesn't matter, you’re doing— 
Jack: [overlapping] Look, whether or not you’ve seen an episode—  Yeah, exactly. 
Austin: I promise you, you're doing the cadence.
Keith: I’ve been doing this cadence since before— 
Art: [overlapping]  I'm Casey, right? 
Austin: [overlapping] I think you're Casey. 
Art: [overlapping] Yeah.
Keith: —Aaron Sorkin was born. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Art: It hurts because none of the people look like this anymore. So, you go to their Wikipedia pages, and it’s just…
Austin: Do they not?
Art: I mean, they're— they're older. 
Austin: Yeah, but they look like it. 
Art: Time passed. Well, I mean, it's been almost 20 years. 
Austin: Eh. Wow, yeah. Well, Peter Krause as a bad haircut. 
Art: A really bad haircut. 
Austin: It's terrible. Josh Charles—  
Jack: I don’t want a— 
Austin: Josh Charles still looks exactly like Dan Rydell.
Art: Yeah, it's true. 
Jack: [quietly] Josh Charles.
Austin: Uh, you would know Josh Charles from... nothing. 
Jack: Great. And who’s the other one? Peter… Krauch? 
Austin: Krause. Peter Krouse. Peter Crotch. 
Jack: Footbeller? Tall?
Austin: Peter Krause—  
Keith: This guy looks familiar. [overlapping] Which one of these— 
Austin: Peter Krause you would know from Six— from Six Feet Under, is probably the biggest. Peter Krause thing? 
Jack: I have not seen Six Feet Under. 
Keith: Same.
Austin: You would know Peter Krause from… 
Keith: Which one of these very medium haircuts is the bad haircut? 
Austin: Oh, the top Peter Krause one, for sure. 
Keith: We might have different top ones. 
Austin: What? Oh, are you— are you on the Wikipedia? 
Keith: You might have different top results.
Austin: Or are you on— you're just on— you’re on— 
Keith: I'm on—  I'm on— Duck, duck, go. Image search. 
Austin: No, I'm not on that. Um, the one that I’m talking about is the one with the, like, the bangs. 
Keith: Oh, okay. That one— Yeah, that's not good. That is— 
Jack: That is not a man for whom bangs suit.
Austin: Right. There are— there are many men for whom bangs suit. But, like, not— Like, uh… What is wrong with this is— 
Keith: This makes him look like a… like a third tier British royalty. No offense.
Austin: He is trying to be a John Darnielle. [dar-ni-eLLe] Darnielle. [dar-nEE-lle]
Jack: I was just about to say! 
Austin: But he doesn't have the facial structure for it. 
Keith: No. 
Jack: Austin, do you want to hear something magnificent and cursed? 
Austin: Yes. 
Jack: Okay. Right. I'm gonna drop a picture of John Darnielle in our chat. 
Austin: Uh huh. Yeah. 
Jack: And then once I've done this, I want you to do an image search for another person. 
Austin: Okay. 
Jack: Okay, so. Open image tab. Copy link. Gonna paste. Here, let me know when you've received this picture. 
Austin: I’ve received this picture. 
Jack: Now do an English—  do a Google search for the English composer, Ralph Vaughan Williams. 
Austin: Spelled as I might suspect? 
Jack: R-A-L-P-H
Austin: Uh huh. 
Jack: Space. V-A-U-G-H-A-N. 
Austin: Oh. Vaughan. [laughs] Not what I—  Not what I thought you said. 
Jack: [amused] Ralph Vaughan Williams. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: Oh, number 2 here. That's... a little bizarre. 
Austin: Wait, what? 
Keith: That is a little bizarre. 
Austin: I think I'm seeing a different one than you. 
Keith: My— We might— Yeah, we have different number 2s. 
Austin: Can you post the one you're seeing/ 
Keith: I’ll— 
Jack: Yeah, absolutely. 
Keith: That's the one. That's my number 2. 
Austin: Okay, I see it. I see it. 
Jack: It's spooky. 
Austin: It’s spooky. 
Keith: I think it’s spooky.
Jack: How close it is, I feel. 
Keith: Oh, there's— This one's even better. This one's better. 
Austin: [overlapped] Are you suggesting...
Keith: This is like one of those ones where people are like, “This is a photo from the 1800’s, but it's Keanu Reeves in the picture.” 
Jack: Mm. 
Austin: Right. Yeah. 
Keith: But this one is that, huh.
Austin: But this is for John.
Jack: Oh my god. 
Austin: Oh, that's—  
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: That’s— that’s John.
Keith: That’s spot on. 
Austin: That’s him. 
Keith: That is— Yeah. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Jack: It's quite unsettling. What I'm suggesting is that John Darnielle has been around for... centuries.

Keith: You're saying that song Vampire is an auto… [overlapped] biography.
Austin: It’s an autobiographical... Yeah. 
Jack: Yeah. About— about— I don't know if that song is about a vampire. [laughing] I don’t remember those lyrics. 
Keith: It definitely says uh... that vampires are sucking his blood. 
Jack: Does it say, “A long time ago, I was born in Oxfordshire… [Keith and Austin laugh] and given the name Ralph Vaughan Williams.”
Austin: [half-singing] “A long time ago, I was born... in Oxfordshire.” [Jack and Austin laugh]
Jack: 2 chord changes! Bom-bom! 
Austin: Yeah, exactly that! [laughing] I would do more, but I've already forgot the name of this composer. 
Keith: Ralph Vaughan Williams. 
Jack: So, this song says, “God damn these vampires for what they've done to me,” when in fact it should be saying I'm grateful—” 
Austin: Mm. 
Jack: Well, may maybe— 
Austin: Maybe he’s not.
Jack: —he’s saying “God damn these vampires” because he was made into a vampire by— 
Austin: Right. 
Keith: What they've done to him is turn him into a vampire— turned him from a composer into a vampire composer. 
Austin: Right. [singing] “I was strongly influenced by Tudor music and English folk song. And then these vampires bit me.” [silence] That's it. And that's it. 
Jack: Yeah. Says— say, “Feast like pagans; Never get enough; Sleep like dead men; Wake up like dead men; And when the sun comes; Try not to hate the light. Someday we'll try, to walk upright.” Classic vampire.  
Austin: Classic vampire. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Are we missing Sylvia still? 
Sylvia: No, I'm here. 
Austin: Oh, hi Sylvia. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: So, we're all back. 
Sylvia: Yeah. Oh, is that— Okay. Yeah, I was being quiet.
Austin: Art’s been back. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Sylvia: I just was enjoying the John Darnielle—  
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: —yatter for a little there. [overlapped] Yeah, I just got back. 
Austin: That’s fair. That's the new podcast he's doing. 
Jack: John Darnielle Yatter?
Austin: Chatter, I believe, is what Sylvia said. 
Sylvia: I did say chatter, but I do like yatter. 
Austin: I like yatter. 
Keith: I only chat about the Mountain Goats, is what it’s called.
Austin: That's the name of the Yoda baby. Yatter. 
Jack: Mm mhm. I don't know why everybody's getting confused. The species that Yoda is is called martian. [Sylvia and Keith laugh hard]
Austin: Right. That's— that's correct. That's the twist. 
Keith: I— I do want to say that if we're gonna say that the baby Yoda’s name is Yatter, we have to say— 
Austin: Mhm. 
Keith: —we don't mean Yaddle, the other Yoda species Yoda. 
Austin: We know about the other Yoda species— 
Jack: Martian. 
Austin: Yo— [laughs] Sorry. We know about the other martian, Yaddle. Of course. 
Sylvia: I saw someone call the marshal— the martian a Yodaling earlier, and I didn't like it very much. 
Jack: No...
Austin: Oh, Yodaling is wrong. 
Jack: “Yodaling” is what you do in the mountain tops. 
Sylvia: Exactly!
Austin: “Yodaling” is what Ralph Vaughan Williams does for fun. 
Jack: [laughing] Yes. 
Austin: Uh,  we should do a 3-2-1 clap just to mark— for Ali. Oops, sorry. 
Keith: By the way, Yaddle sucks, if anybody— 
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: —hasn’t seen what Yaddle looks like. 
Austin: Yes, Yaddle sucks. We agree. 
Jack: I don't think there should be more Yodas, and that's very sad. I feel bad about that. 
Austin: That’s— [amused] that’s— 
Keith: They’re a whole species of people. 
Austin: That's why Werner Herzog was so sad. That's why Werner Herzog was—  
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: —heartbroken was [in a voice] “There should not be more than one Yoda.” Alright. Let's do a 3-2-1. Ready? 3, 2, 1. 
[1 clap, followed later by 3 other claps]
Austin: Alright. 
Jack: Oh, not so bad. 
Austin: Alright. [lightly laughs] Not so bad, unlike this desperate roll that we have in front of us. 
Sylvia: Right. Yeah.
Austin: Or desperate position that we have in front of us. 
Keith: It’ll be— I'll be fine. 
Austin: I hope so. 
[0:53:54] [transitional music stinger]
Jack: It has gone cold.
Austin: —to study. And it instantly, actually hits— 
Keith: And that’s— 
Jack: Hey, I might just run to the bathroom. And put it— [indistinguishable
Austin: I lost connection. 
Keith: What it— Really it's going on medium, which is the only bad temperature for coffee. Cold is good, and hot is good. 
Jack: Yeah, That is true— [lightly laughs] Yeah, that is true, actually. God, medium fucking sucks, [overlapped] as far as coffee is concerned. 
Keith: Yeah. Medium coffee is terrible. 
Jack: I will be right back. 
Sylvia: Uh, yeah, I'm actually going to run to the bathroom really quickly. 
Keith: Um, And I'm gonna get some more water. 
Art: I'll stay right here. 
[clap] 
Austin: Just clapping so that you can see where I lost connection, Ali. Hi. I think I’m back. Am I back? Can you hear me again? [silence] Hello? [silence] I believe I'm back now. 
Keith: Hello. 
Art: Hey. 
Austin: Bad— bad timing, huh? 
Keith: Yeah.
Art: Yeah. 
Austin: Mm... I’m gonna finish chewing on this piece of beef jerky, 
Keith: I was going to do some— some match foley, and then you switched to fuze, which is not a noise I can recreate here. 
Austin: Don't say that. 
Keith: Don’t tell anyone that. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah, cut that out. 
Keith: Edit that out. You ready? We can cut the— This, we can cut out. We can put wherever we want, right?
Austin: Yeah, mhm. 
[match lighting sound] 
Austin: Keith, that's a match. 
Keith: Yeah, that’s what I said. 
Austin: You made the sound of a match. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Incredible. I mean, you know, that's— I don't know that I can do that actually. I feel like… [sighs] I feel like I may have hit the limit of my ability here. Um, let's— let's— 
Keith: I— I always knew that would happen. Didn't want to say it. 
Austin: I know. Let me just— let me see what— how close I can get. 
[different match lighting sound]
Austin: How— It's a little, too… 
[more match lighting sounds] 
Keith: That was close.
Austin: I can get the fire, but I can't get the— I can't get… It’s a little more lighter than a match is. 
Keith: The fizzle. 
Austin: I don’t have the fizzle. I don’t have the after, you know? 
Art: [overlapped] Yeah, it is a little lighter. 
Keith: Alright, we're gonna do— we're going to do a really good one. This one is gonna be even better. 
Austin: Okay. 
[match lighting sound]
Austin: Yeah, that's great. That's— that's a match. Perfect. 
Keith: Yeah, that's match. 
Austin: That's a match. 
Keith: That's what they say. That's a match! 
Austin: That’s a match. 
Sylvia: So, the great thing about coming back halfway through is I don't know if Keith was making that noise with his mouth or not, cause he can make any noise. 
Austin: That's exactly the thing, right? 
Keith: Yeah, I was. 
Austin: He can. He can do that. 
Keith: Yeah. I was. 
Austin: Uh— 
Keith: Sorry, I didn't even mean to imply that that was anything but... my mouth.
Austin: No, no, no. That was your mouth. That was your mouth. 
Keith: Yeah, that was my mouth. 
Austin: So, let me get— I’m gonna do another clap for Ali. 
[1 clap] 
Austin: So, she knows we're coming back in here. Okay. 
Jack: Hi. 
Austin: Oh, are you back? 
Jack: Yeah, we got everyone.
Austin: Yeah, okay. Art is here, too. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: I was just getting coffee. 
Art: Uh huh. 
Austin: Okay. 
Keith: It's okay. While we're waiting, I was recreating match sounds with my mouth. 
Austin: Right. 
Keith: To use as foley for earlier. 
Jack: Match sounds? 
Austin: Match sounds. The— 
Jack: Can you give me just one cause I feel like I missed— missed out?
Keith: Yeah. [clears throat] 
[different match lighting sound followed by blowing]
Austin: That's it. [Sylvia laughs lightly] That's perfect. That is exactly how it sounded before. 
Jack: Keith can make any sound. 
Austin: Any sound. Yeah. Um… 
Keith: I feel like my last one was better, but that one was pretty good. 
Austin: You do three in a row, that's really hard, you know? 
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: So. 
Sylvia: It’s tough.
Austin: So. Uh… 
[final music stinger to end]
________________
[1] The name in the audio recording is no longer in use, hence the audio/transcript discrepancy.