Clapcast 68: Megabytes to Milligrams
Transcriber: robotchangeling


Ali: I'm doing the same thing that I did last time before we were recording: going to sanrio.com, looking at the New tab.


Janine: Uh huh.


Ali: Almost buying these Tuxedo Sam ice cream sundae sticky notes.


Janine: Ooh.


Ali: Or…I’ll just link them in chat just to set the vibe for the occasion.


Austin: Hello.


Keith: Hello.


Ali: Hi.


Austin: How’s it going?


Dre: Hi.


Ali: There’s this one.


Janine: Let’s see these sticky notes. Those are pretty cute.


Ali: Or there’s the pizza one that I kind of really want.


Janine: Oh, the pizza one’s fun!


Ali: [laughs] It’s really fun, and then you have like little page tabs, right? because it’s the slices.


Janine: Yeah. And you get the drink too.


Ali: And you get the drink, yeah.


Janine: It’s versatile.


Ali: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And they’re both the same price, so it’s like…


Janine: Oh, yeah.


Ali: It depends on if you want like a note thing or like a flag thing.


Janine: Yeah. Like, if you're just writing like, you know, “Ted, 5:00 p.m.” or whatever on the thing, that’s fine. [Ali laughs] If you need to like write a whole missive about–


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Janine: Or like a recipe or whatever, then you need the bigger ones.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: “Dear Ted,” for instance, you need a bigger one.


Ali: Dear Ted.


Jack: Exarch. 


Austin: Mm.


Jack: I got a new lamp in the mail today. I'm very excited about it.


Dre: Ooh.


Ali: Ooh.


Janine: Ooh.


Keith: What color temperature are your bulbs?


Jack: Warm. It actually has–


Austin: That’s a separate conversation. That has nothing to do with the lamp, right? It has to do with the bulb.


Jack: It has high/low intensity settings.


Ali: Ooh.


Dre: Ooh.


Jack: I'm going to post a picture of it in…the Dog Pound, I suppose.


Austin: Mm.


Dre: I always forget that that’s what that’s called. I'm just so used to it at this point, it doesn’t even like cross my mind.


Jack: Yeah.


Dre: Then I'm like, “Oh, yeah.”


Keith: What are you used to?


Dre: “Let me just go to General.”


Keith: Oh, Dog Pound, gotcha.


Ali: The Dog Pound channel.


Janine: Oh, that’s fun.


Austin: Oh, that’s a very [indistinct praise]. 


Ali: Ooh.


Keith: Okay, so it is a built in bulb.


Austin: It is.


Janine: Does it turn into just like a little pyramid?


Austin: Well…


Jack: Yeah, let me just turn it into a little pyramid for you. One second.


Janine: Like, it folds in?


Austin: Yeah, does it close up? Yeah. That’s fun.


Janine: Like a metronome.


Jack: I need to make sure it aligns a little better, but…


Dre: Ooh.


Keith: Very nice.


Dre: That looks cool.


Keith: It’s a little bit like the Pixar guy.


Jack: [distantly] It’s like the Pixar guy.


Dre: Yeah.


Ali: Mm.


Keith: But not quite. It’s sort of… [Sylvia laughs] Oh, look at that.


Austin: That I love.


Ali: I like the little fold in.


Austin: The fold in is great.


Janine: Yeah.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Keith: And now it’s like the droids in Phantom Menace.


Austin: Mm.


Ali: You know what’s gotta do this, this season, is, um…


Austin: Bing-32.


Ali: Bing-32. Thank you. [laughs] 


Austin: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.


Jack: Is Bing-32 going to unfold to reveal Bing-64?


Ali: Oh, yeah.


Sylvia: Oh.


Dre: Damn.


Ali: It needs an upgrade.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Jack: Oh, god.


Ali: It’s been five years.


Austin: It’s been five years.


Ali: But then, R2-D2 was just, you know, out there, so. [laughs] 


Austin: The whole time, yeah.


Keith: Yeah, where is Bing? Like, where– did Bing go with Leap?


Austin: No. 


Ali: There was a bunch of them. It’s like a…


Austin: It’s like a type of unit.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Right?


Jack: They’re on the Blue Channel, right, presumably? 


Ali: I guess we’ll see.


Jack: If Asepsis considers them suitably pure. [Ali laughs]


Austin: I imagine they’re like a pretty common Millenium Break unit type, at this point, right?


Dre: Mm.


Janine: What if Asepsis considered all of them pure except for one? [laughter] 


Austin: I have to kill this one.


Jack: Oh, Bing-666.


[transition 0:3:42]


Dre: Man. [Austin sighs] I wish I had the option to take trains anywhere.


Ali: Oh. Are there just none out there?


Austin: There’s just nothing down there, huh?


Dre: No.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: The closest one is like Indianapolis.


Austin: That sucks. Ugh!


Ali: Ugh.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: Fuck that. [to self] This is the wrong…


Ali: They had a thing about that.


Dre: Because like, I'm going to Chicago in May, and like, it’s just far enough to drive that it’s annoying.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Dre: But it’s not far enough to me feel justified in flying.


Austin: Flying. Yeah.


Dre: So, my only options would be like a Greyhound, and I don't want to do that.


Ali: God, no.


Austin: So you're going to drive instead?


Dre: Yeah. [Austin sighs] It’ll be fine.


Austin: It literally doesn’t– there’s just no…


Dre: I'm meeting up with people there, and I'll be like one of two people in a group of like 12 that have a car, so that’ll be…


Austin: Right.


Dre: Like, it’ll be good to have, but…


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Yeah. Yeah, but it’s still not ideal, right?


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: That’s the whole thing, is like…


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: Wow, yeah, there is not a train that like passes through Kentucky.


Dre: Nope.


Austin: Or Tennessee.


Dre: Nope. Nope.


Austin: There’s one on the border with Ohio.


Dre: Uh huh.


Austin: Fuck that.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Dre: They’re talking about– there used to be an Amtrak line that ran like straight from Indy to Louisville to Nashville, and they’re talking about trying to bring that back, but…


Austin: That seems like such an easy yes. Do you know what I mean?


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Austin: And it could even go down to Atlanta. Do you know what I mean?


Dre: Yeah. Uh huh.


Austin: Like, just connect Indianapolis– effectively connecting Chicago– the fact that to get from Chicago to Atlanta or vice versa on a train, you have to go down to New Orleans and up…


Dre: Uh huh.


Austin: Or up to Charlottesville, Virginia and over is ridiculous.


Dre: Yep.


Austin: And again, the answer here is people just fucking fly. Which sucks, is the problem, you know?


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Dre: Yeah. Yeah. Ah, apparently we are the fourth largest metropolitan area without Amtrak service.


Austin: I'm trying to think if I can figure out what the other ones– the fourth biggest, right?


Dre: Mm-hmm. Yeah.


Austin: All right. Um…does…okay. Are they all landlocked states?


Dre: Oh, I don't know. I don't have the list in front of me.


Austin: Oh.


Dre: I'm just reading this article about the proposed corridor.


Austin: [laughs quietly] Gotcha. I see.


Dre: And that’s what they say.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: I bet Memphis is one of the other ones, though, right?


Dre: Maybe. Does Memphis not have trains?


Austin: Oh, no, Memphis does. Memphis does. Memphis does. I see it now.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah. Memphis does. So yeah, there is that one– the thing is that the line that goes south from Chicago, it does pass through like the tiniest little bit of Kentucky, in the southwest, which is ridiculous.


Dre: Oh, Wikipedia has the list.


Austin: Okay.


Dre: Uh, the biggest one is Las Vegas.


Austin: That makes sense. Yeah, okay. 


Dre: The second biggest is Columbus, Ohio.


Austin: I can see that. Yeah, there’s a big– there’s a huge– the map I'm looking at has like a big red mark for all of the different metro areas, and yep, that’s…


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Austin: It’s right in the middle of Ohio. It’s kind of fucked, because Cincinnati and Cleveland have lines.


Dre: Yep.


Austin: And Columbus is like in between the two of them, you know?


Dre: Mm-hmm. Uh, Nashville is third, and then we’re fourth.


Austin: Nashville is third. Okay. Makes sense. What’s fifth?


Dre: Uh, Tulsa.


Austin: Oklahoma. Sure.


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Austin: Yeah. Hi, Jack.


Jack: Hello. [Dre laughs] 


Ali: Hi.


Austin: There is one in Oklahoma City, which I don't know if it’s far from Tulsa.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: Those states are just so fucking big.


Jack: Where are we going?


Austin: We’re going to a future where there’s trains.


Ali: Yeah.


Jack: Oh shit! 


Dre: I wish.


Austin: We’re not. We’re not doing that.


Jack: Exciting.


Austin: We’re doing the opposite of that, unfortunately. 


Jack: [laughs] On a long enough timeline.


Dre: Wait. The Space Coast area.


Austin: Is that Florida?


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: I guess it’s– oh, yeah, it’s the area around the Cape Canaveral.


Jack: They love trains there. Or, no, they use, um…what did they use to carry the rockets? They’re like massive square lorries, right?


Austin: Mm…


Jack: The vehicle that carried the vertical rockets that NASA used was the largest four-wheeled vehicle ever made, or the largest wheeled vehicle ever made.


Dre: [intrigued] Mm.


Jack: It was an extremely cool car.


Dre: [googling] NASA very big truck.


Jack: Yeah, it was called the crawlers. [laughs quietly] 


Austin: Great name.


Jack: Great name.


Austin: Great.


Dre: Yo!


Jack: Yeah, this is, on some level, what I've always pictured Fort Icebreaker as looking like, but, you know, much, much, much larger.


Austin: Yeah, this thing is cool. This thing is wild.


Dre: Yeah, we’re just going to drop this in PALISADE real quick.


Austin: Yeah, for sure.


Jack: Yeah, it was the largest self-powered land vehicle in the world, until it was beaten in 2013 with our dear favorite, which is a piece of horrible human engineering, the XGC8800 crawler crane and the Bagger 288, which we have put on Friends at the Table many times.


Austin: Oh, sure, yeah. Big robot.


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: Okay. Time.is.


Ali: Time.is.


Dre: Oh, yeah, the website.


Austin: I promise I'll find some energy. Yeah, the website about video games.


Dre: No, Austin.


Austin: Mm. [laughs quietly] 


Dre: That’s a different website, and it’s a sad place now. [quiet laughter] 


Austin: Ah, truly.


Jack: Today’s quote is by Jim Rohn, and Jim Rohn says, “Time is more valuable than money. You can get more money, but you cannot get more time.”


Ali: Mm.


Jack: And I consider this to be the platonic ideal of a Time.is quote. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Dre: Uh huh, yeah.


Austin: It’s really all there. That’s kind of the damn thing, isn’t it?


Dre: God.


Austin: That’s kind of the entire subgenre of Time.is quotes.


Jack: This is what they made the mold with.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: This quote by Jim Rohn.


Dre: Yeah.


Austin: Every other–


Dre: When you first– go ahead, Austin.


Austin: No, you go ahead.


Dre: I was just going to say: Jack, when you first said that person’s name, I thought you said Jim Rome, who is… [Austin laughs]


Jack: Jim Rome, the inventor of Rome.


Dre: No, he’s a douchey sports commentator.


Austin: No, yeah, yeah.


Ali: Oh.


Dre: Who like, every once in a while is kind of funny, [Austin: “Eh”] but is mostly douchey.


Jack: It sucks, because Jim Rome is a really good name.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Really good sounds of that name.


Austin: And yet.


Jack: [laughs] And yet.


Austin: And yet.


Jack: Sadly, whether or not someone’s name sounds good is not a mark of virtue.


Austin: It is not, unfortunately. You know what, one second. I want to restart my browser, because it’s running so slow, and I think it’s because I haven’t restarted it in a while. Also, I think it’s probably because I'm transferring a terabyte of data currently.


Ali: Oh.


Jack: Oh, that’s it. That’s why.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Jack: You found the reason.


Austin: Mm-hmm. Uh, I'm 90% done, 30 minutes left, so it should be done soon.


Ali: A terabyte?


Austin: It is every recording on this computer since…forever ago.


Ali: Sure.


Austin: You know? It’s well over a year of recordings is what I would say, which is foolish of me to have on this computer, but… [Jack laugh quietly] 


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Uh, you know. When you're editing a podcast, it can be hard to be like, “I’m going to get rid of those files,” so.


Ali: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.


Austin: But it’s time.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: October 2021? You don’t need to be here now.


Ali: You do not need to.


Jack: No.


Austin: I am good to do a clap now.


Jack: Let’s do it!


Ali: Same.


Austin: 10?


Jack: Mm-hmm.


[clap]


[transition 0:11:37]


Ali: Had some Clearly Canadian for the first time in a while recently.


Austin: Ooh.


Ali: I don't know if…


Sylvia: Wait, what’s that?


Ali: It’s a type of seltzer, I guess?


Austin: Yeah, it’s like from when I was a kid.


Sylvia: Okay.


Janine: I wouldn’t call it seltzer.


Austin: What?


Ali: Is it because–


Janine: It’s sweetened, isn’t it?


Ali: Is it? I thought it was just…


Austin: Would you say…?


Ali: I thought it was just naturally flavored.


Janine: Clearly Canadian? I think Clearly Canadian is seltzer. 


Austin: Isn’t that what–


Janine: Er, is sweetened.


Ali: Soda. Or sweetened, yeah.


Janine: Yeah.


Austin: Yeah, but seltzer is sweetened also.


Dre: Seltzer can be sweetened, can’t it?


Ali: Not always. Not usually.


Austin: Yeah, but…


Janine: Oh, I tend to think of seltzer as like not sweetened.


Keith: Seltzer is flavored, not sweetened.


Austin: It’s flavored. Yeah, it’s flavored.


Janine: Yeah, that’s the difference. Clearly Canadian, to me, is like a diet drink. It was like big in the ‘90s here still, so I think it was probably before…


Sylvia: Okay.


Janine: Sylvi, before your time, but it was here. I don't know if you can still get it here.


Austin: I don't think of it as being that different from like…


Janine: Maybe they’ve redone it.


Ali: Yeah, it’s just…


Austin: Like, flavored seltzers. It’s flavored seltzer.


Ali: It’s marketed as sparkling water.


Austin: Yeah.


Dre: Mm.


Janine: It has sugar in it.


Sylvia: This is why I didn’t know about it, because if I see sparkling water, just like, my brain just phases it out. [Ali laughs]


Dre: Fair. 


Sylvia: It doesn’t register.


Janine: Sparkling spring water, from Canada’s finest natural water springs; all natural flavor; pure cane sugar, sweetened with non-GMO cane sugar; [Ali: “Oh”] citric acid, for freshness and that little extra zing.


Austin: I think some seltzers have sugar in them, though.


Dre: Yeah.


Keith: I think that you–


Janine: This might be an America thing.


Keith: I think you can’t call it a seltzer if it’s got sugar in it and that Clearly Canadian probably has a soda thing and also a seltzer.


Janine: Yeah, because then what’s the different between seltzer and 7 Up?


Ali: Well, the syrup.


Dre: I like to drink 7 Up.


Sylvia: Let’s go. Let’s go, Dre.


Austin: Yeah, presumably a collection of syrups, right? [Ali laughs quietly] 


Janine: But sugar and water makes a syrup, I hate to tell you.


Ali: You're not wrong. I just…


Austin: Yeah.


Janine: You just don’t like it. [Ali and Janine laugh]


Ali: I mean, I– like, if I'm buying a seltzer, I expect it to be unsweetened, which is like why I would usually reach for one.


Janine: This is the trick. This is their trick.


Ali: But at the same time…I’m trying to think now, because there’s definitely brands that I have to avoid, because I'm not a like stevia person.


Austin: Mm.


Janine: Mm, mm-hmm.


Ali: It just tastes really bad.


Janine: Yeah. There’s like a bitterness to it. It’s weird.


Ali: Yeah. It’s just not…whatever they think that they’re doing with the substitution, [laughs quietly; Austin: “Mm”] it would be better to just have a thing that’s not as sweet.


Dre: I'm trying to find answers about seltzers, and all of these are only about alcoholic seltzer.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Keith: Yes. That is exactly what I'm finding, and it looks like that’s because people are trying to say, “You can’t call this seltzer, because it’s got alcohol in it.” 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Keith: And the seltzer people are maybe saying, “It’s not seltzer. It’s beer. It’s technically beer.”


Austin: Right, yeah.


Sylvia: I was genuinely going to ask about that.


Austin: Yeah.


Sylvia: I was going to ask, “Is White Claw seltzer then?”


Austin: It markets itself as seltzer.


Janine: Yeah, it does.


Sylvia: It marketed itself as one.


Keith: It does, yeah.


Austin: Wait.


Ali: I'm anti hard seltzer.


Dre: What is the difference between–


Keith: I'm also anti hard seltzer.


Sylvia: I'm fine with them. I’m with Austin.


Dre: Okay, I googled, “What’s the different between seltzer and sparkling water?”


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Dre: And it says if the carbonation is artificial, it’s probably seltzer or club soda.


Sylvia: What?


Dre: If the bubbles are naturally occurring straight from the source, it’s sparkling–


Janine: Yeah.


Dre: What?


Keith: Yeah. 


Janine: Yeah.


Keith: Oh, you don’t know about that?


Ali: Wait, what?


Sylvia: I didn’t know about that.


Keith: That’s what Perrier is. Perrier is a sparkling spring.


Austin: Yeah. It has the…


Keith: Actually, weirdly, they don’t use the naturally occurring carbonation.


Dre: What?


Austin: Oh.


Keith: They take– it’s too carbonated, [Janine laughs] so they have to take out the carbonation and then reintroduce it later.


Austin: Huh.


Ali: What?


Sylvia: Is that why it tastes narsty, or… [Ali laughs]


Keith: I like it.


Sylvia: Like, I don't know. I'm not here for it. Get out of here.


Keith: Perrier specifically, or…?


Janine: I mean, this is how SodaStreams work.


Sylvia: No, most carbonated water.


Dre: Okay, sparkling or carbonated water forms naturally when volcanic gasses dissolve in springs or wells of natural water.


Janine: Yeah, gas. Yeah.


Dre: Okay.


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: Again, this is how SodaStreams work. 


Dre: Sure.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Janine: You just put gas in water, and it–


Keith: Right.


Janine: Or this is also, if you…


Keith: Well, but technically–


Dre: And that’s how seltzers work, apparently.


Janine: If you have carbonated water coming out of your tap, it means there’s a gas leak. This is a big thing when like fracking was in the news. Remember, people were getting like [Keith: “Yeah”] carbonated water, and they were like, “What the fuck is happening?”


Sylvia: Oh, yeah, RuPaul.


Ali: Mm.


Keith: The difference is the SodaStream is in a little plastic thing on your counter, and the Perrier spring happens underground in the dirt.


Janine: Yeah.


Dre: Mm. Okay.


Janine: But there’s pressure under there. It’s just, you know…


Keith: Yeah.


Janine: It’s pressure. Pressure, gas, water, fizz. Anyway, there’s 25 grams of cane sugar in a bottle of Clearly Canadian.


Ali: Wow.


Austin: The real thing here seems to be that seltzer is, of course, originally a marketing term also.


Dre: Sure.


Ali: Oh, sure.


Janine: Mm.


Keith: Mm.


Austin: It’s from the German town of Selters, which was renowned for its mineral springs, and so…


Ali: Oh.


Austin: And of course, selts and seltz. So it’s all fake.


Janine: See, this was Bath’s problem. Bath had bad branding from the start. They went the wrong way. No one wants to drink bath water. [Sylvia laughs] 


Austin: Mm-hmm. 


Dre: Mm…well.


Sylvia: You’d be surprised.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Dre: Janine, yeah. [Janine laughs]


Ali: Mm.


Austin: Are we good? Are we ready to Time.is?


Janine: A smaller group of people want to do that. [laughter] 


Keith: I accidentally bought what I thought was a black cherry–


Dre: Yeah, and they all exist when I do random groups for content in Final Fantasy XIV, apparently.


Ali: Wow.


Keith: I accidentally bought what I thought was a black cherry flavored seltzer and actually was a sparkling beverage that was aspartamey.


Austin: Mm…


Ali: Mm.


Keith: And it was really unpleasant. I really didn’t like thinking that I was about to taste a sugarless, sort of lightly flavored water, and instead I got a diet black cherry soda.


Austin: A blast of, yeah.


Janine: I had this exact same thing happen with a case of alkaline water that was supposed to be alkaline water, but they sent me the more expensive vitamin-infused water, that if you look at the back, you can’t drink more than one of a day, because there’s so much zinc in it.


Ali: Oough. [Keith laughs]


Janine: But it’s also full of artificial sweetener, and it just tastes weird.


Sylvia: God.


Janine: Anyway.


Dre: Jesus Christ.


Austin: Time.is.


Dre: Yeah, Time.is.


Ali: Time.


Dre: I looked at the Tumblr numbers again. It’s getting even worse out here. It’s a bloodbath. [Ali sighs]


Austin: You’ve gotta let go.


Janine: You gotta give in. You gotta let it go, you know?


Dre: I gotta let it go. Yeah.


Sylvia: You don’t watch Succession, do you, Dre? [Ali laughs quietly] 


Dre: Uh, no.


Sylvia: Because it’s giving Connor a little bit. [laughter] 


Dre: I know nothing about Succession, but this feels like a huge insult.


Sylvia: He talks a lot about numbers in the past couple episodes.


Keith: Yeah, I haven’t seen Succession either, but that is a massive insult. That’s about the worst thing you could have been compared to.


Sylvia: No, he’s– I like him. The latest episode made me like him.


Ali: Yeah.


Dre: Oh, okay, so you hated him until very recently. Hmm. [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: No, I thought he was fun!


Dre: Hmm! Hmm!


Ali: You're supposed to hate all of them, but they’re all little meow meows in their own way, and… [laughs quietly] 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Ali: It’s very compelling.


Dre: Well, yeah, because they’re all bad billionaire people, right?


Keith: See, that’s the thing I can’t– I can’t get behind that they’re all little meow meows in their own way. [Ali laughs] 


Dre: Sure.


Keith: That’s why I don’t want to watch the show.


Sylvia: Fair!


Ali: I mean, you should.


Sylvia: That’s why I resisted it.


Ali: I think that you should. The yaoi is good. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]


Dre: Yeah, you should just be a little meow meow, Keith.


Austin: Keith doesn’t care. What do you–


Ali: Keith cares! No, I'm gonna get Keith because of Greg and Tom, so don’t say that. I'm gonna get Keith.


Janine: Oh my god.


Ali: It’s going to happen, and it’s going to be because of the yaoi. [Janine laughs] 


Sylvia: It got me. [Ali laughs]


Dre: Well, okay, but come on.


Keith: I do like Greg and Tom.


Ali: [laughs] Anyway.


Sylvia: Anyway.


Janine: There’s no love in that marriage, you know?


Ali: Mm-hmm. When are we clapping?


Sylvia: When are we clapping? [Ali laughs quietly] I apologize for the diversion.


Dre: Whenever Greg and Tom are clapping, I guess. What?


Austin: 40. 40. 40.


Ali: Mm-hmm. 


[clap]


[transition 0:19:32]


Janine: I don't know what that means.


Austin: Have it told y'all about game-news24 yet?


Dre: No.


Ali: No.


Sylvia: Excuse me?


Austin: It’s a…for a while I thought– I'm going to link game-news24 really quick.


Dre: Yeah, it’s got video game news.


Austin: Well…


Janine: And 24.


Austin: Oops. I didn't mean to put that in the Sangfielle chat. [Ali laughs quietly] I should put this in the gamer chat. 


Sylvia: No, it’s fine.


Janine: You sure?


Austin: Important. Yeah, uh huh. 


Dre: Is it horrifying? Is that why it’s in the Sangfielle chat? [laughs] 


Austin: I don't know why it’s written like this. I thought at first it was AI, but it isn’t, I don't think. I think that it’s just…


Janine: It’s just like that?


Austin: It’s just like this. So like, for instance, this story on the D&D movie that says that it’s lacking in roleplaying character, [laughs quietly] which feels brutal.


Dre: “Did you know the movie was created by the same name for Dungeons & Dragons: Honor Among Thieves?”


Austin: [laughs] Do you see what I mean, Dre?


Dre: Are you sure this is not AI? This reads like AI.


Ali: What?


Austin: I don't know.


Sylvia: “2023 began to give us some hope that–”


Dre: “The different parts of game of Dungeons & Dragons…” Oh, they’re switching it up. instead of calling it Dungeons & Dragons, this is calling it Dragons and Dungeons. [laughs] 


Ali: Mm.


Austin: Great. Fantastic.


Sylvia: That’s what they should call the people.


Dre: “What comes to mind with Dragons: Honor Above Thieves: the protagonist is Chris Pine.” [laughter] 


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Janine: So, mm…


Dre: This is AI, Austin. [laughs] 


Janine: This is almost…I think this is actually–


Austin: Or is it Google Translated?


Janine: Yes, that’s what I'm saying.


Keith: Yeah.


Dre: Oh.


Janine: I think this is too bad to be AI. [Keith laughs] It, to me, feels like they are scraping a bunch of international sites and translating it–


Austin: Yeah. That’s exactly it.


Janine: Because they’re less likely to get found out doing that.


Dre: Mm.


Austin: That has to be it. That has to be it. 


Janine: Some of the– how is this…? Some of this isn’t news. “Skyrim has thousands of improved first person animations.” That’s from today. [Austin and Sylvia laugh]


Ali: Well, they’re improved.


Austin: Yeah, they got better. What do you mean? 


Janine: “The adaptation sounded very compact. The mod weighs only seven megabytes.” [laughter] 


Sylvia: Oh my god.


Ali: That’s great.


Janine: It’s just a mod. It’s just like a– it’s just a mod.


Dre: “Do you read the books in Hogwarts Legacy?”


Sylvia: No.


Janine: Ugh.


Austin: I do not!


Sylvia: Not touching that one!


Janine: No. Uh uh.


Sylvia: Nope!


Dre: I don't know, there is a story about a catgirl and some stories about that catgirl.


Sylvia: Truly could not give less of a shit, Dre. [laughs] 


Janine: Mm-mm.


Keith: What’s the conversion from megabytes to milligrams?


Austin: Do you think that they meant that it’s only seven milligrams? [laughter] 


Keith: Yeah, this Skyrim mod is only seven milligrams.


Dre: Boy.


Austin: All right.


Janine: And you inject it straight into your CPU with a little needle.


Dre: Mm-hmm.


Austin: That is actually some Twilight Mirage shit, I feel.


Sylvia: Listen, we’re in sci-fi. We can just do this.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh. Get ready.


Sylvia: Write it down.


Austin: Yeah, we’ll come back. All right. Uh, Time.is?


Dre: [laughs] “The Nothing Phone (1) and Google Pixel 6a.” All right, I'm quitting this. I'm closing this.


Austin: The Nothing Phone? [laughs] 


Dre: Yeah. The Nothing Phone, yeah.


Austin: God. Get me one of those. All right, Time.is. Uh, 30?


Janine: Oh, right, the website I opened and then forgot about.


Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.


Janine: Yep.


Dre: Yep.


[clap, followed by PALISADE end music]