Clapcast 65: Introducing: Raw Potato
Transcriber: thedreadbiter
Dre: Okay. So is the Greg a person?
Ali: The Greg is an army of... [laughs]
Janine: Greg is an army, and a family.
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Oh, okay.
Keith: No, I will translate it for normal people.
Ali: Oh, yeah, Keith, sorry.
Keith: This is what this guy calls the people that watch his videos.
Dre: Oh, okay, I gotcha.
Keith: He calls them, the collective, collectively, Greg.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Okay. So it's not Gregs.
Janine: Austin, can we get a link, also?
Austin: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: No.
Dre: It's just, it's just Greg.
Keith: It's just one guy.
Janine: Yeah.
Dre: Shoutout to Greg.
Janine: Well.
Austin: That's us, you're shouting us out.
Dre: Uh-huh, I know.
Ali: Uh-huh, yeah.
Austin: Which is good!  I'm happy to be shouted out.
Keith: You're shouting out Austin and Janine and also Ali now I guess too.
Austin: Ali now. Yeah.
Dre: Mm.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Okay, and then I go here, and then I copy the Patreon link. Which.
[something falls in background]
Dre: Uh, I'm just gonna do my gacha pulls instead of asking about Greg. That's what I'm gonna do.
Ali: Ooh! What games?
Dre: Uh, Counter:Side.
Ali: Sure.
Keith: [cross] That sounds not real. That sounds like [laughing]
Austin: [cross] That sounds fake to me [laughs]
Janine: Yeah, I was gonna say, now I'm the one who has no idea what's going on. Counter:Side?
[Ali cackles]
Austin: Do they owe us money? They put a -- Counter:Side? [amused] Yeah, okay!!! That's us!
Keith: Oh, I was thinking that this was like a Twitter... Does everybody get Twitter ads for fake mobile games that are like they're gacha AFK games?
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: That it's like, this is like some other game but it's all anime girls.
Ali: Yeah. Well, those...
Austin: Yeah, I'm, I am drowning in the anime girl ads right now.
Ali: [snorts] Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: My Tiktok is rotten with them.
Austin: Counter:Side seems sick, wait, why didn't you link me to this?
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Oh, I have seen this, this is just --
Dre: I probably did, it's been out for a while.
Austin: This is the one where it's like you get a billion characters on screen and they just fucking go for it?
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Is that correct? Okay,
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Mm-hm. Yeah, you just drop em in. There's a single lane and they just kinda.
Austin: They just go.
Dre: They just go for it, yeah.
Austin: Gotcha.
Keith: I thought it was gonna be like gacha Counter-Strike anime.
Dre: I mean, it's not not that. It's not a shooter. Um. But it is like, it is anime ladies -- and guys! -- with like guns and magic powers. It's kind of, it's, hm,  it's not Control in the flavor of Control, but the idea oflike there being government agencies that like protect the normal world from the other side.
Austin: Right.  From the "Counter" side.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Okay.
Janine: Oh, ohhhh [clips].
Austin: Yeah, that's where it comes from, that's how they get there. All right, we should time.is.
Dre: Anyway, they're doing a collaboration with Hololive right now.
Austin: Oh, sure.
Ali: Oh, sure.
Janine: Oh, that's fun.
Dre: So I thought maybe you would have heard of them, Janine.
Janine: No, I'm way out of the Hololive stuff. Like, I'm deep out, despite the fact that i have a vtuber avatar that I use.
[Ali laughs]
Dre: Yeah. No, fair.
Janine: I'm a hundred million percent checked out.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Uh, Dre --
Dre: Nobody there is your Oshy?
Janine: What?
Dre: Or whatever, however you pronounce it?
Janine: [confused] No...
Keith: Uh, Dre, you sound slightly hot, maybe, in your mic. Just maybe.
Dre: Wait, okay.
Keith: Not a hundred percent.
Austin: Dre sounds *quiet* to me!
Keith: Dre sounds quiet, but also hot.
Austin: Oh, by clipping, is what you're saying.
Dre: Quiet but hot?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Quiet but -- [musing] quiet but hot...
Ali: Mm.
Keith: I could be wrong about the heat, and it could just be that I had to turn you up cuz you were a little bit quiet.
[Ali and Janine laugh]
Dre: Well. Well, it could be clipping. Cuz I have a new mixer and I haven't messed with any of the like in depth settings but I know it has like a gate and stuff like that so it could be.
Austin: Mm. Could be.
Dre: That could be kicking in.
Austin: Um.
Dre: So let me look at that.
Austin: You look at that, I'm gonna get my notes up. Season 8, switch to this tab, yes, please. Make it bigger...
Dre: Keith, is this any better? Or does it sound the same?
Keith: I think it sounds better. It's definitely, you definitely sound louder but not worse, whivh is a good sign , I think.
Dre: Okay, all right.
Austin: Yeah, I boosted you a little bit.
Dre: I turned off the compressor and lowered the gate.
Keith: Okay, that's what it was, I figured out exactly what it was.
Austin: Oh, the compressor.
Keith: You were getting further from your mic and the compressor was forcing your voice louder.
Dre: Ah.
Keith: So you were not up on the mic and the compression was like making you sound bad because it was boosting your distant voice.
Dre: Gotcha. Yeah.
Austin: Mm-hm.
Janine: Mm.
Dre: Well, I'm all up in this mic now.
Keith: Uh, Frank in the chat says that I'm much louder than everybody else.
Austin: Yeah, always.
[Keith laughs]
Austin: It's just the truth, that's just, like, I can drop you to 50, and you're gonna get there. I'll adjust, I'll try to adjust. My computer is being --
Keith: I can drop me.
Austin: No no no, let me mix, cuz I have lots of headroom for you still.
Dre: *Let me mix*.
Austin: Let me, let me *mix*. Uh. My computer is being bad, right now, and I think it's because I have the next two Road to PAliSADE intros open on Audacity?
[Ali laughs]
Dre: Oh. Yeah.
Janine: Might do it. That might do it.
Austin: And one of them, one of them has, I don't know how many fucking files are in here.
Ali: [knowingly] Uh-huh. Uh-huh!
Austin: Jesus, what are we doing?
Ali: Well, that's okay cuz I need five minutes to watch this recommended Youtube video to me. Perfect video - bleh. Perfect dinner, beautiful cheese potato flower, new way to eat potato.
Austin: Ohhh. New way to eat?
Dre: New way to eat potato?
Keith: Wait, they found a new way? I feel like it's been forever since they released a new way to eat potato.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Hey everybody, new way to eat potatoes just dropped.
Ali: Potatoes have been around for a little bit, too.
Austin: We're gonna try it out here on the channel. We're gonna see how it is. I don't have high hopes cuz I feel like they've already done all the ways, but you know what, I'm gonna go into it, open mind, open heart. Open mouth. That's the motto for the channel.
Keith: Ugh. Do you remember when they released raw? That was...
[Ali cackles]
Keith: A low point for potatoes.
Janine: Hey! Listen.
Austin: This is so on, you've just shot someone in the head on this call. And...
[Keith and Ali laughing]
Austin: And you didn't mean to.
Janine: I... like raw potato.
[Keith cackles]
Janine: Everyone thinks it's poisonous. It's not, it's poisonous if you like eat a lot of it, and it's hard to digest. So you just, it's just a little treat! It's like when you're cutting up the potatoes --
Keith: Janine, it's not that it's hard to digest, it's that it's hard to.... have in your mouth!
Janine: You can just eat it a little bit.
[Ali laughs]
Janine: It, I mean, it's fine! It just tastes like if dirt was good, to eat.
Ali: Mm.
Austin: Dirt is -- first of all! First of all!
Dre: That's beets.
Austin: Dirt is good to eat! Let's get that straight. Right away.
Dre: Well.
[pause]
Austin: Okay, it's not good to eat. Don't eat dirt. Sorry.
Keith: Wait -- okay.
Janine: It's like, it's crisp,
Austin: I didn't mean to mislead anybody.
[Ali laughs quietly]
Janine: It's crisp, it has like a snap, it's like earthy but it's like, fresh and like moist?
Keith: Someone's gotta send Janine some apples.
[All laugh]
Dre: Mm-hm.
Keith: The good -- I like to call apples the good potato.
Janine: Okay, but! In French, the French word for potato is apple of the earth!
Austin: Yes. Yes.
Keith: Mm-hm.
Dre: Yeah, it's the pomme d'terre.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: It is, yeah.
Janine: It is an earth apple.
[Ali is still laughing]
Janine: It is like an apple, if an apple was like 99% dirt.
Keith: Dirt, yes. [laughs]
Ali: How, how thin a slice are we talking here?
Austin: A slice? I think she just picks it up like an apple and bites!
Ali: No.
Janine: No no no no no no!!! You don't eat the skin. You don't eat the skin.
Austin: A -- oh, *well!* I'm sorry!
Dre: Oh, of course not. Austin. Don't be stupid.
Janine: If you're... If you're preparing potatoes to like make mashed potatoes, so you like peel them, you cut them up, you boil them?
Austin: Uh-huh.
Janine: That's like the perfect opportunity to steal a chunk.
Austin: Oh, I see. Get a little...
Janine: You just take one of the chunks, you do a little crunch, you keep going, you cook, like, it's like a snack while you're cooking, it's a little treat like when you get the end of a carrot. You know?
Austin: Yeah. Yeah, mm-hm.
Dre: Mm-hm!
Janine: It's nice!
Keith: What is the end of the carrot? What do you mean --
Austin: We don't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't.
[Ali cackles]
Austin: Time.is. Time.is, we have a hard out, we gotta go.
Janine: Mm-hm.
Dre: [sighs] Are we recording this locally?
Austin: Yes.
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: Okay. Let me get that going... Open a roll20.
Ali: Oh, roll20!
Austin: Roll20.
Dre: Mm-hm.
Austin: We're just in the Road, the Road to PAliSADE one.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Uh, are we good to clap?
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Oh, happy, uh, baked ziti day, everybody.
Ali: [excited] Oh, thank you!!
Austin: Wow.
Keith: Yeah, a delicious baked ziti day to all.
[Ali giggles]
Austin: Uh, 40?
[Dre laughs]
Austin: 40 seconds?
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: Sure.
[pause]
[clap]
Austin: All right.
Janine: It was *international* baked ziti day.
Austin: I'm sorry.
Janine: Is the holiday I made up.
Ali: Where does it say that? It doesn't say that for me.
Janine: Nowhere, it's a lie, it's a lie!
Austin: It's a lie, we were lying.
Ali: Oh...
Janine: I made a joke, but then Keith hopped on the call right after I'd said it was a joke, and we just started rolling with it.
[Ali and Keith laugh]
Janine: And then you hopped on and there was just no time.
Keith: I didn't know it was a joke!
[All laugh]
Ali: I want some.
Austin: Yeah...
[MUSIC: “No Crisis” sting]
Keith: Um.
Janine: It was the Perkeo.
Keith: [understanding] Ooookay.
Janine: I got the Perkeo in cotton candy. Which is like a, it's a cute little guy, yknow? LIke it's.
Keith: Yeah. I love the Sport, I mean, I have...
Janine: What is it that you love about it? I just, like, I wanna get it, you know?
Keith: Um. They're... So I used like a medium or a broad nib. In them. And they just write really smoothly, and it isn't -- yeah, it's like you said, it's not like the greatest fountain pen of all time, but I have, you know, pens that cost double the amount that a Sport costs or more that I'm like, eh, I prefer, I prefer this $25 one, it is more fun to use. It's a really good size, I like that it's tiny. But then when you use it, cuz you cap it, and it's big enough to not be problem.
Janine: I guess that's -- I also -- I, shorter barrel pens that I have to cap, that I have to post to get any length on, I find that sorta stresses my hand out when I write -- I regret looking at these Kaweco pens because I *need* this. I need it? Like, I need it.
Keith: Which one? Oh, this.
Janine: I linked it in [laughs] in PAliSADE...
Ali: Ooh, this is nice.
Keith: Oh, look at that!
Janine: It's beau -- I bet it's so uncomfortable to write with, though, because it's got that sharp... The edge before the nib.
Keith: Maybe, but... I like it, though.
[Ali laughs]
Janine: It's... [laughs] It's so nice.
Keith: They're good about comfort, though, I think.
Janine: Yeah...
Keith: Like, all of their pens look like they'd be uncomfortable, and then never are.
Janine: They just might be expecting you to ride up on it, though. Oh, they have it in a ballpoint twist-top. The pen that I've been using the most lately is not even a fountain pen, it's this Leuchtturm Drehgriffel that I got like on a whim, and I just swapped some...
Ali: Drehgriffel? [laughing]
Janine: One second.
Keith: Uh, yeah, Ali! A Drehgriffel! [laughs]
Janine: Leuchtturm Drehgriffel... It's a pen design from the 20s that they revived, basically.
Ali: Ooh.
Janine: I got the like, I gotta find this brass one because all the plastic ones look like shit. [typing] Uh... and I'm like obsessed with this pen, I , it came with a normal ballpoint refill and I hated it and I kept, I had to dig around to find a gel refill that would like work in it consistently and I finally found one that I had to get shipped to Austin cuz it's like expensive here. Uh. And then got it and then put it in the pen, and I'm just like obsessed with how nicely it writes, why can't I find this? I can only find...
Ali: This is like a kitbash pen.
[Janine laughs]
Ali: You like customized it.
Janine: Well, no, I mean, I just put a different refill in it, that's how pens.
Ali: Okay, sure.
Janine: That's how, if you have like a pen that's brass, you're not gonna throw away -- you know, you're just gonna swap it out.
Ali: Oh sure, yeah yeah yeah. And you're not gonna feel beholden to what they put in it when you bought it.
Janine: Yeah. So none of these are the one that I have. [laughs]  The one I have, instead of being plastic, has a black body with a brass tip and a brass like twister at the end.
Ali: Ohhh.
Keith: Okay. This kind of looks like the pen version of the Perkeo. Or, sorry, the pencil -- the ballpoint version.
Janine: Yeah -- well -- yeah, exactly, exactly, like that's why, I noticed those and was like, oh. This is a thing I know I like already.
Keith: Mm-hm.
Janine: It's just like really, it's so, it's so perfect. I've never loved a pen as much as I love that thing. Uh... We were talking about, we kicked off talking about Mossery's, uh, backing out of the planner thing.
Ali: Yeah. Is it like a choose? Or is it just like a we're sorry about that?
Janine: It's a we're sorry -- their exact -- they sent out a survey to people and they said, you know, we're looking for feedback, and it says "we've already incorporated some of the feedback we received and we're pleased to announce the return of our classic weekly horizontal layout."
Ali: Sure.
Janine: "Our goal is to always create products that are fun, easy to use and functional for our users."
Ali: [laughs] Uh-huh.
Janine: They got, they have-- they must have been fuckin, just raked over the coals. Like there's no other explanation. [laughs] They con -- I mean, it's just that like, they converted to a layout that you can get from a bunch of other planners, so like why would I go with you, then?
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: Just because of your covers?
Dre: The covers are nice, but.
Janine: Cause I can put one of those planners in your cover, too.
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: They all fit. It's like... Why would I not just get a Leuchtturm or something, like. Man, I really want this pen, I gotta stop looking at this pen.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Get the pen!
Janine: It's 100 dollars US, I am not getting it. [laughs]
Austin: Oh. Yes. That's an expensive pen.
Dre: That is an expensive pen.
Janine: It's expensive for a whim. Certainly.
Dre: That's almost as expensive as the Remarkable pen, Janine.
Janine: Oh my god, you're right.
Austin: What's a Remarkable pen...
Keith: Yeah, that one has a battery that lasts at least a week.
Ali: A battery!
Dre: Yeah. I bought a way too expensive like writing tablet.
Austin: Ahh.
Ali: Ooh.
Dre: And it works really great for what I want it for, but I very much hesitate to recommend it to anyone else because of it being expensive.
Austin: I gotcha.
Janine: Mm.
Ali: Sure.
Austin: That makes sense.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, I remember seeing a video when the first one -- or, no, when the second one was like being introduced and being like oh, this is like an interesting thing, and then after 10 minutes of watching the video, being like, this thing's pretty neat, then being like, and then it's only $300 or whatever the fuck it is and I'm like oh my god, no. No way.
Janine: Yeah...
Austin: It's a lot. It's a lot.
Keith: And then, and then Dre says and also the pen is even more expensive.
Austin: Oh, just the tablet was 300.
Keith: Yes. Just the tablet.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Now I see.
Keith: You have to buy the writing for the tab--
Dre: It's like 400 altogether. Yeah.
Keith: All it does is being wrote on. It doesn't do anything else.
Austin: Right, I see.
Keith: But you still have to buy the pen separate somehow.
Austin: Right right right.
Ali: Sure.
Austin: Okay. I think I'm good -- are we -- we're waiting on Sylvi? We still no Sylvi?
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: We're waiting on Sylvi.
Austin: Okay.
Dre: I've got two different beverages.
Austin: Same.
Janine: Ooh.
Ali: Yeah, I have a water and a small can of ginger ale.
Austin: Ooh.
Dre: Ooh!
Keith: I had a coffee and I drank it and now I have nothing.
Ali: Oh, no.
Austin: You should get a...
Dre: I have a...
Janine: Aw.
Ali: Go get some water!
Austin: Go get some water.
Dre: I have a water and an overly-caffinated lemonade.
Austin: Mm.
Ali: Wow.
Dre: From Panera.
Ali: Why's it have caffeine in there?
Keith: Caffinated lemonade?
Austin: The lemonade, how much, how many coffees is that lemonade drink?
Dre: It's like 2 grande cold brews.
Ali: What?? How? What'd you put in there?
Keith: Is that how they advertise it?
Dre: I didn't, Panera did this to me.
Ali: Oh.
Austin: Oh, I've had that, I've had that.
Keith: Oh! This is the -- right.
Austin: It's fine!
Dre: Yes! It's good!
Keith: I talked on Run Button with Kylie about this.
Dre: It's fine! It's a lot of caffeine, but you know.
Austin: It is a lot of caffeine.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: I had one one day a few months ago and was like oh, that was way more -- I didn't -- this isn't -- ahh!
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Ali: There's just something about Panera Bread Monster energy drink? [laughs]
Keith: Caffinated. Yeah, basically.
Dre: Yeah. So here's the thing, Ali, is that earlier this month I got an ad on Tiktok that was like hey, we're doing a free like two months for the Panera Sip Club, and I was like what is that.
[Ali laughs]
Janine: Sip club?
Austin: Sip club...
Dre: And the Panera sip club is you can get a new Panera drink every two hours for free if you want to.
Ali: Every *two hours*?
Dre: Yeah. uh-huh.
Keith: That's, yeah. How much is the sip club normally though?
Dre: So. It's like $11 a month.
Ali: Okay. Well --
Keith: Okay. So if you're getting, if you work next to a Panera and you can easily go and get free lemonades, that's a great deal.
Dre: And I do. And I do. And it's like their lemonade and their teas andtheir soft drinks and coffee. It doesn't cover the like latte coffee, it's just like, you know, you want a dark coffee or a --
Ali: Oh, so I wouldn't be able to get like a iced mocha. Yeah.
Dre: You can get a cold brew! But you couldn't get like a mocha, yeah.
Austin: Right. Mm-hm.
Keith: The thing that I do find funny about their caffinated lemonade thing is that, uh, from Kylie I heard like that they advertize it as like it's got the same caffeine as 8 cups of coffee, and I'm like yeah, cuz it's 8 cups of lemonade!
Ali: Ew!
Keith: It's like huge, it's an enormous beverage. [laughs]
Austin: Mm.
Dre: I mean it is very big.
Janine: WHY? Why?
Keith: It's like 30 ounces!
Ali: What do, how is the caffeine getting in there? Is my question.
Dre: I dunno.
Keith: You can just put powdered caffeine in things.
Janine: You can just put caffeine in stuff. Yeah.
Dre: A 20 ounce serving has 260 milligrams of caffeine.
Ali: So this is a Jolt.
Janine: How does the caffeine get in eye cream, like it's just, they put it in.
Ali: Oh, sure -- well, you know what I -- like, is it?
[Keith laughs]
Dre: Oh, god. A Monster energy drink has 86 milligrams of caffeine. That can't be right.
Keith: But the question is how much caffeine per ounce, it ends up being pretty similar.
Dre: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: Because it's, yeah, it's like a 30 ounce thing.
Dre: Okay, Monster has 160 milligrams in a 16 ounce can.
Keith: Yeah. So double that to get the 32 ounces that the Panera drink is.
Ali: Lemonade, yeah. I guess, I mean I guess people wanna be awake and not drinking coffee.
Dre: Yeah, uh, I don't drink one in one sitting. I drink like half of one and then I put it in the fridge.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, I learned about this because Kylie saw a story about someone who drank several of these and then like had a total freakout.
Dre: Oh, yeah yeah yeah!
Keith: Cuz they were like, they didn't realize...
Dre: It was like someone who worked at Panera and was just like slammin em.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, they didn't realize how much caffeine they had in them.
Janine: Cuz it's lemonade. Cuz...
Keith: And then that made Kylie go, I should go get this and try it.
[Ali laughs]
Dre: And then they tasted colors and saw sounds and...
[Ali sighs]
Sylvi: Hi. Sorry for the wait.
Janine: Hi.
Austin: How you doin?
Sylvi: I'm, you know. I'm hanging in. [slight laugh]
Austin: Aw. I feel you.
Janine: I was gonna say it's the birthday girl, and that's not, it's not your birth...
Sylvi: No.
Austin: Is it not?
Janine: It's Dre's birthday soon.
Austin: It's Dre's birthday.
Dre: Is it Sylvi's birthday soon?
Austin: It's not.
Janine: Isn't it? Wait. Who...
Sylvi: No, like four months!
Austin: It's not Sylvi's birthday soon. It's Dre's birthday on Wednesday.
Janine: Whose birthday is soon? Right, yeah yeah yeah. Okay.
Austin: Dre's birthday is Wednesday, Sylvi's -- Dre asked, Dre said "It's Sylvi's birthday soon?" And I said no, it's not.
Janine: Oh.
[Ali laughs]
Keith: Oh, okay, okay.
Janine: I thought Dre was saying, was like saying "It's my birthday soon" as if I had gotten it wrong.
Keith: Yeah, I also thought [laughs]
Janine: I was like, aw fuck!
[Dre laughs]
Austin: That's very funny.
Sylvi: No. You have a new birthday now, Dre. We're switching.
Dre: Hell yeah, let's do it.
Sylvi: Enjoy being a Taurus.
Dre: I already -- ooh. I don't -- what does it make me? All I know is that since I'm a Pisces I feel feelings all the time.
Ali: Mm.
Dre: What does a Taurus --
Keith: No one else is doing that.
Austin: Yeah, is that only a Pisces thing? Is...
[Ali laughs]
Janine: Oh.
Austin: Fuck, I'm fuckin up.
[pause]
Austin: Uh, I can just get all players...
Keith: Yeah, if you're ever felt a feeling it just means you're a secret Pisces.
Dre: I mean I think. I think it's that I feel feelings and then I just wanna talk about them all the time.
Everyone: Mmmm.
Austin: Ah, that's different. That could be different.
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: I'm just gonna -- for fun, I'm gonna google "What is a Pisces".
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Fish.
Janine: I just wanna see what it's gonna gimme.
Keith: It's gonna be a lil picture of a lil fish.
[Sylvi laughs]
Ali: It's gonna be like, they change their mind a lot.
[Austin and Janine make small disparaging noises]
[Ali laughs]
Austin: That's just a classic, huh?
Dre: Guess what, y'all, I'm gonna shed a few tears of joy today at some point, according to horoscope.com.
Ali: Ooh.
Austin: Ahh.
Keith: Oh!
Austin: That's nice!
Janine: Apparently it's a negative, mutable sign. So fuck you.
Austin: What?
Ali: Wow.
[Keith laughs]
Dre: Yeah. That's fair.
Keith: Yeah, can we get all the negative signs outta here?
[Ali and Janine laugh]
Dre: Ooh.
Austin: Posi, posi signs only.
Dre: Guys, I don't know. I'm only 3/5 stars on my vibe rating today.
Austin: What the fuck?
Sylvi: I'm 4/5.
Keith: Let's see, what am I, what do I got?
[crosstalk]
Austin: Horoscope.com?
Janine: Vibe rating?
Austin: Is that what it is?
Keith: Horoscope.com.
Sylvi: I'm 4/5 on hustle and success, so.
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: Huh.
[pause]
Austin: This is talking about cleaning my apartment today, that's not happening. Sorry, horoscope.com, I got a game to run.
Dre: Mm.
Ali: Ooh, 4 on the vibe rating. 4 on the hustle rating.
Austin: Ooh!
Dre: Ooh!
Sylvi: Yeah! Let's go.
Ali: Only 3 on success, though.
Keith: Oh. So mine's weird because I am --
Dre: Wow, so you're just grinding for no reason, huh?
Keith: I am 4 on the vibe rating, but I'm only a 2 in everything else.
Ali: Ooh! Uh-oh.
Keith: So low success, low hustle, low sex, but: vibes good anyway.
Dre: Damn.
Austin: Vibes good anyway! You know what!
Dre: Keith's just the Brooklyn Mets.
Austin: That sounds good --yeah.
[Ali and Keith laugh]
Austin: That's, that's, clean living, Keith. Keep it up.
Keith: My inclination may be to control --
Austin: Also, I think that -- I think that is how I -- that is you. That is how I, like, you appear to me with low --
[Ali cackles]
Keith: Low success? That's me to you?
[Janine sighs]
Austin: Well! You don't care. You're not -- it's not --
Keith: [amused] No, it's me to me too.
Austin: You know what I mean, right?
[lots of laughter]
Austin: You're not a grindset motherfucker!
Keith: No, I'm not, no.
Austin: But your vibes are immaculate!
Keith: Yeah, thank you. Yeah, vibes are okay. Hustle's very low for me. Honestly, maybe 2 is an overestimate.
Austin: No, I'd put, I would say 2, you're a 2 hustle! You're not a 1 hustle!
Ali: Yeah, you're not a 1 hustle.
Austin: You showed up! You know what I mean?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: 1 hustle doesn't make it to the call today.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: That's fair.
Janine: I have a question about this website, and it's, when I scroll down to these free reading options, and my choices are "Starbreeze Tarot, real psychic tarot readings, accurate timing", and "Reverend Charlie, answering life's questions, love, life, career".
Austin: Oh, I don't get those, I...
Janine: What's. Happening? Why is a reverend giving tarot readings?
Austin: Uh, I have Susan...
Janine: Is that okay?
Austin: I have a Susan and I have a Cupidcore but the Cupid is spelled with a V.
Dre: Sure!
Janine: How? What? Oh, like instead of a U?
Dre: Oh.
Austin: Like the U, instead of the -- yeah.
Dre: Cvupid?
Janine: Cvupid?
Keith: Oh, I have the same ones that Janine has.
Austin: Ìnteresting.
Keith: Maybe... maybe we're just...
Dre: I have Reverend Charlie and Starbreeze Tarot.
Austin: Oh, mine -- wow! Mine just changed, I now have Psychic SuZen, S-U then capital Z-E-N.
[Ali laughs]
[pause]
Janine: Psychic SZA.
Dre: Oh. Uh.
Austin: She's an empath.
Dre: Reverend Charlie is a metaphysical minister -- and does angel readings!
Janine: Ah. Ohhh.
Ali: Mm.
[Sylvi cackles]
Ali: Oh, I can get those in Final Fantasy, so.
[Janine laughs]
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah, you don't even need, you don't even need...
Keith: I do have my, uh... My, um, tarot here. I've got the Hanged Man, the Hermit, and Justice.
Ali: Mm.
Austin: Interesting.
Dre: Dang, just all arcanas today, huh?
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Fun. All right --
Keith: In terms of your personal life, you need time alone today. Oops.
Ali: Uh-oh. [laughs]
Dre: Oops!
[Janine laughs]
Austin: Don’t fuck it up. This is… 
Dre: You had before now.
Keith: Yeah, that's true.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Right, you're right, you're right.
Keith: Uh. I need a. The Hermit and the Hanged Man between them create a heavy atmosphere but I could turn it to my advantage *if* I'm prepared to put myself under scrutiny.
Austin: Keith, is this not the reading we got for you when we played, uh, Anamnesis at the end of...
[Ali laughs]
Keith: I got the Hanged Man.
Austin: You definitely got the Hanged Man.
Keith: And the, um.
Austin: Did you not get the Hermit? Maybe you didn't get the Hermit. No, you did not get the Hermit.
Keith: I don't think I got Justice or the Hermit, but the Hanged Man I definitely got.
Austin: No, yeah, yeah. You got the Fool, you got the Hanged Man, and you got, like...
Keith: The Fool, right. That was my other...
Austin: The, did you get the cool one with like the pathways that split and there's like a little crab and a...
Keith: Yes. Yes.
Austin: Okay. [typing] That's a good recording.
Janine: Ah, yes, the crab roads, that's my favorite higher arcana.
Austin: The crab roads! You know!
Keith: Okay, um, Lovers, Chariot, Justice, the Hermit, Wheel of Fortune, Strength, Hanged... Um.
Ali: If we don't start I'm gonna buy these Tuxedo Sam --
Austin: I'm gonna time.is. Time.is, time.is, time.is.
Keith: Okay, okay. All right.
Ali: Sticky notes, and I don't need them.
Austin: Time.is. Yeah.
Janine: Ooh.
[pause]
Ali: Shipping on sanrio.com is too much moneyyy.
Austin: All right. We're recording, everyone's recording, everyone's getting ready to do a clap.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvi: Mm-hm!
Janine: Yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Keith: I've got a backup too just in case.
Austin: All right.
[garbled background audio]
Austin: Okay. Ready to do a clap?
Sylvi: Mm-hm.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yes.
Austin: Top of the minute!
[pause]
[disjointed clap]
Austin: Let's do one more at, uh, 10 seconds.
[pause]
[excellent clap]
Austin: All right.
Keith: That second clap, that was my best ever clap.
[Ali laughs]
Austin: Yeah?
Janine: I clapped too hard and it really hurt.
Austin: Aw.
Dre: Yeah. I do that every time.
Keith: I've never been so exact, so precise. I could not have been closer.
Austin: Wow. To the second, I see what you're saying.
Keith: To the second. I mean, it was perfect. I wish you could have seen it.
Austin: I wish I could have seen it too.
Janine: You just got an extra star and you're vibrating.
Ali: Ohh!
[Austin laughs]
Keith: Yeah, I just saw it tick up. This side’s magic, I think.
[laughter]
[pause]
[MUSIC: "No Crisis"]