Clapcast 74: Fast Diner Category
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Ali: I keep— [laughs] This is also, like, a side effect of, like, my whole winter being fucked and then breaking my foot.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Ali: But I also have…it has occurred to me that I am not gonna live in New York City for my entire life, and when I'm not anymore, is the thing that I want to look back at be, like, “Oh, I got level 90 in Scholar in Final Fantasy XIV,” [laughs quietly] or should I, like, go do things? But I'm not gonna go to Williamsburg to see a movie that I just watched, like, a month ago or two months ago.
Dre: Mm.
Ali: But I should do things. [laughs quietly] You know?
Dre: That’s such a mood. [Ali laughs quietly]
Sylvia: I'm kind of feeling similarly about Toronto, if I'm being real, so I gotta…
Ali: Yeah.
Janine: I've never lived in a big city, so that’s— it’s so alien to me? Like, it’s fascinating to me? [Ali laughs] Like, the feelings that people have around cities like New York and Toronto, because, like…Toronto, to me, as someone who grew up, like, close enough to it to go there but not there, is always like, okay, well, you go to Toronto for field trips, [Ali laughs] school field trips to the zoo and to the ROM and the Science Centre and all that and whatever the art museum’s called. I don't remember. And [laughs quietly] you go there to get your x-rays and surgical consultations for your scoliosis surgery, and you go there for anime conventions [Ali: Mm.] and if you want to buy stuff at the Pacific Mall 'cause you're a huge weeb. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Fucking rules though.
Dre: Okay. All right! Okay!
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: At the Pacific Mall…
Keith: Correct me if I'm wrong, but Toronto’s old—
Sylvia: Got a fucking bootleg Sgt. Frog plush there.
Ali: Wow. [Janine laughs]
Keith: Toronto’s old, like, city slogan was “Toronto is for field trips,” right?
Janine: I thought you were gonna say, “Toronto’s for weebs,” and I'm like, a little…
Sylvia: I don't know.
Janine: It was like…I was going up. I was like, “Oh, he’s gonna say it. He’s gonna say it. He’s gonna say it!” [Ali laughs] and then you said— [coughs] sorry, you said “field trips” and…
Keith: Sorry.
Janine: Really took the wind out of my sails.
Ali: Oh, wow.
Austin: Hello.
Ali: Hi.
Sylvia: Hello.
Keith: Hello.
Austin: How’s it going?
Keith: It’s okay.
Ali: Chattin’.
Sylvia: It’s going.
Janine: I think I'm done coughing.
Austin: That’s good. It’s good to be done.
Janine: Yeah. I'm happy about it. [Ali laughs] I'm gonna send out cards about it.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: Oh. To other people?
Janine: Yeah. They’re gonna say “Congratulate me,” and then you open it, and it says, “on stopping coughing.”
Ali: Mm.
Austin: Oh, okay.
Dre: Mm.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: I'm expecting replies.
Austin: I'll do my best. [Janine laughs quietly] 
Ali: Call ASAP.
Austin: Hmm…okay.
Sylvia: I am just gonna grab my phone charger real quick.
Ali: Cool.
Austin: Sounds good.
Dre: Cool, cool.
Ali: I'm gonna get a proprietary second can of seltzer.
Dre: Let’s go! [Ali laughs]
Janine: Hell yeah. I have one. 
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: I have a new kind of seltzer to try.
Keith: Oh, that’s exciting.
Janine: It’s not the citrus and strawberry one. It’s another weird new one.
Dre: Ooh.
Janine: It’s orange cream soda flavored.
Austin: Mmm.
Janine: I don't think I'm gonna like it.
Keith: Oh, is there something better than orange cream soda? I can't— I don't think there is.
Dre: Orange cream soda’s pretty good.
Janine: But it’s seltzer, so like…
Keith: Yeah, but even the suggestion of orange cream soda I can…
Sylvia: So it’s memories of orange cream soda.
Keith: Right, yeah. It’s a whisper of an idea.
Janine: Yeah.
Dre: Ooh.
Janine: They do, like, a root beer seltzer, and like, it’s kind of nice, if you've ever had root beer and been like, “I wish this didn't taste like sugar syrup,” but it’s a little, I don't know.
Keith: I feel like that all the time, but what I want root beer to taste like is, like, roots and bark.
Austin: Mm.
Ali: Mm.
Janine: And then emulsive.
Keith: And not like water.
Janine: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: I want my root beer to taste like someone poured a Bud Light down the side of a tree.
Austin: [pained] Mm.
Janine: And then I drank it off the…
Austin: Mm…
Keith: There’s a really— there’s a—
Ali: What’s wrong with A&W? 
Janine: I don't want this.
Ali: What are we talking about?
Janine: No, I like normal root beer. 
Ali: Okay. [laughs quietly] 
Janine: I'm just riffing.
Keith: There’s two…I don't know that they’re warring, but in my mind, they’re warring. There’s two local soda companies in Rhode Island. Actually, I don't know— I only— I'm like 90% sure that Yacht Club is, like, a local Rhode Island soda brand.
Austin: Sounds like it.
Janine: Yacht Club Soda. That’s absolutely Rhode Island local.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. So, I was pretty sure. There’s another soda company called Empire, and Yacht Club is, like, in all the restaurants, so you can go to, like, a slightly nicer sandwich shop and get a Yacht Club soda, but the problem is: their cola and, you know, lemon lime soda, it just tastes like normal…it just tastes like coke. It just tastes like a generic coke. 
Janine: Yeah, you gotta do something different.
Keith: Empire is run by this weirdo 95-year-old in Smithfield, Rhode Island. It’s impossible to get. You can't buy any off of their website. You have to, like, talk to this guy on the phone to, like, make a big order of sodas.
Dre: Oh, wow.
Keith: And there’s, like, only a couple of places in the state that I know that you can reliably get Empire Soda. It is the best cola that I've ever had, bar one. There’s a weird British cola that I like a lot. [Ali laughs quietly]
Dre: Ooh.
Ali: [quietly] Jesus christ.
Keith: Called Fentimans Curiosity Cola. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Dre: Oh, I've heard of Fentimans. [Ali sighs]
Keith: It’s really good.
Janine: It comes in a jade bottle, and it’s $100. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Keith J Carberry…
Keith: Their birch beer is better, but this is what I'm— this is what I want out of a soda is I kind of want it to taste like old medicine.
Ali: Mm, hmm.
Dre: Hmm.
Keith: But like, you can see why— it’s like, Moxie’s the same way. I love Moxie.
Janine: Are you a Brio guy?
Keith: Brio? I don't know Brio.
Austin: Oh.
Keith: Actually, I think maybe this has come up before when I've talked about liking Moxie.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: That sounds likely.
Keith: Brio.
Ali: I feel like we’ve spoken about Brio before, yeah.
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Brio’s Canadian, I want to say.
Janine: Is it? I thought it was, like, Italian.
Keith: Citrus flavored soda.
Austin: I think it’s, like…
Janine: It’s not citrus. I don't know—
Keith: “Inspired from the fruits of Italy” is what it says.
Austin: Yeah, it’s not actually Italian. It’s like…
Janine: Oh.
Keith: I would love to try some Brio. It’s a Canadian variation of a chinotto soft drink.
Janine: Oh.
Ali: I'm loving this bottle.
Austin: The Brio bottle? Brio looks good. 
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: I love the bottle.
Keith: I think it looks great. I would love to try Brio.
Janine: I think it tastes like carbonated gasoline.
Ali: Ooh.
Keith: Eh, I don't like— I don't love that idea. I guess, you know.
Sylvia: Now I'm listening.
Janine: Sylvi, you know Brio? What’s the— you got Brio vibes? Sylvi went away to get something.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: No, wait…
Austin: No, Sylvi’s here. Sylvi’s here.
Janine: Oh, okay.
Sylvia: I'm right here? Hi.
Keith: You're here. Hello. 
Sylvia: I've never had Brio.
Janine: Okay. Brio’s like…I guess I should have known it wasn't Italian, because in my head, I associate it with, like, Italian-adjacent fast food, but then I realized, like, well, they have it at Pizza Pizza, so it can't be… [Ali snorts] It can't be that fancy. If you can get a Brio at Pizza Pizza, that’s…
Dre: Is that just Canadian Little Caesars?
Janine: No.
Dre: No, we’ve talked about this. There was, like, a lawsuit, wasn't there?
Janine: I don't know. We have Little Caesars too. I don't think they can say “Pizza Pizza” up here? I don't know. 
Austin: It’s different.
Keith: They say “pizza pizza pizza.”
Austin: Yeah, it’s weird. There’s Pizza Pizza and there’s Little Caesars, and I looked this up when I lived there, because I was very confused by it. They cannot. They cannot. They’re not allowed. They’re not allowed to say it.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Ali: What’s Canada’s Boston Market that has a funny name?
Austin: They have Boston Pizza? You're thinking of—
Janine: That’s not like Boston Market.
Austin: No, you're thinking of Swiss Chalet.
Sylvia: Boston Pizza is a…
Ali: I'm thinking of Swiss Chalet, yeah.
Austin: Swiss Chalet is not Boston Market. It’s different.
Janine: No, it’s a little…
Ali: No, but it’s the same vibe.
Austin: It’s not inside.
Janine: No. This is why I was shocked when I looked— when I saw inside a Boston Market for the first time, like, last year, [Ali laughs] just in a video. I was like, “Wait, what?” because I was expecting…I was expecting it to be either like a fancy grocery store with maybe like a nice sitdown section like a Swiss Chalet.
Ali: What?
Janine: And the fact that it was just, like, [Keith: Oh.] this is just a fast food restaurant [Ali: Yeah.] but you can get a chicken is just like, what the fuck? [Ali laughs]
Keith: It’s fast food roasted chicken.
Ali: You can get chicken at Burger King.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Yeah, Swiss Chalet is…
Janine: It’s weird.
Austin: I have a hard time placing Swiss Chalet as, like, a type of place.
Keith: So it’s like what if Boston Market was a sit down restaurant.
Austin: But it’s— okay. It is You're right. 
Janine: It’s more—
Keith: Okay.
Janine: It’s, like, kind of in the vein of, like…
Austin: But it’s not even at, like, a Friendly’s. Do you know what I mean?
Ali: Yeah. Okay.
Keith: It’s sub Friendly’s?
Austin: I think it’s better than Friendly’s to eat, but I think the interiors are not [Keith: Okay.] even Friendly’s at the tier…
Ali: So it’s still quick service but, like, dressed up?
Austin: No, there’s like…I mean, define quick service for me.
Janine: So, you can get takeout or delivery, but you have to kind of order it ahead usually, but it’s like…
Dre: [crosstalk] Chipotle.
Austin: No, so it’s not that. There’s a…you can have a waiter, right, at Swiss Chalet.
Ali: But then how is it below Friendly’s?
Janine: Yeah, that’s…
Austin: Because the vibe is just— it’s, like, cheaper…
Keith: Does it have, like, a whole ‘70s holdover vibe to it?
Austin: No.
Keith: No?
Austin: If it did— that’s Friendly’s. You're describing Friendly’s to me. [Ali laughs] It’s like…
Janine: It’s family dining but, like, smaller and…
Austin: I need to find a video.
Ali: Oh, is it like a Sizzler?
Austin: It’s more like a Sizzler!
Janine: Ah.
Dre: Is it like an Applebees?
Austin: But I think it’s above a Sizzler. No, Applebees— no, no, no.
Keith: Okay.
Ali: No, 'cause Applebees is below— [laughs] is above Friendly’s.
Keith: Is it like if—
Austin: Applebees is above Friendly’s, yeah.
Dre: Wow.
Keith: Is it like if you—
Austin: I'm not recording. I should be recording.
Keith: I'm recording.
Austin: Okay, good.
Ali: Uh huh.
Keith: Is it like if someone took an X-Acto knife and cut out one restaurant in a food court and said, “This is its own restaurant.”
Austin: That— you know, kind of yes.
Keith: Okay.
Austin: But, like, not exactly. That’s kind of mean. It’s higher than that.
Keith: [laughs] But the food in food courts is good sometimes.
Austin: Yeah, I agree.
Keith: Okay. So, I get it.
Austin: I gotta find a video. I have to find video. [Dre laughs] We gotta go inside a Swiss Chalet together here. 
Ali: Oh, wow.
Janine: I consider— it’s like a—
Sylvia: Oh god, not again.
Janine: You know, it’s… [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: I don't want to go back there. [Janine laughs]
Dre: Well, now we know where the Friends at the Table meetup has to be.
Austin: Uh huh.
Dre: Somewhere where there’s a Swiss Chalet.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Don't come to Toronto. I want to go somewhere.
Ali: Yeah, Jack can't leave the country.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Aw.
Sylvia: Right. Do they have them in Buffalo? Let’s go to Buffalo.
Keith: That’s so weird. What a weird rule.
Ali: I know.
Dre: Is Swiss Chalet not neutral territory?
Ali: I guess not.
Austin: It’s not. The American police don't believe so.
Sylvia: Despite the name. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Damn.
Austin: Uh, here’s just a— I'm not, like, turning the video on, or I'm not turning the audio on for this, but like, you know. You can kind of see the background in this video. They kind of walk in in the middle of it.
Ali: Wait, stream it to us.
Austin: Okay, I'll stream it. I'll stream it. [Ali and Janine laugh]
Ali: You said we’re doing this together.
Austin: Okay, you're right.
Dre: Yeah, come on. [Ali laughs quietly]
Austin: Yeah. Well, then I'm gonna find a better video. Give me a second.
Dre: Family dining means family streaming. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Are you seeing this video?
Keith: Is this guy drinking the cup of gravy?
Austin: Probably.
Sylvia: Probably.
Austin: All right, do you see what I'm talking about?
Janine: It’s Chalet Sauce. It’s Chalet Sauce. It’s not gravy.
Sylvia: Right, yeah.
Dre: Oh, this is a Denny’s.
Austin: It’s, like, a step above Denny’s. It’s, like, one slight step above Denny’s.
Ali: No, no, no. No, no, no.
Dre: This is a TGI Fridays.
Ali: No.
Austin: It’s not a— it’s below a TGI Fridays.
Janine: Hmm.
Keith: Oh.
Austin: I mean, this menu is very TGI Fridays, but it’s— okay, I'll put it this way. You know how Fridays can be, like, 18 floors somehow?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Oh.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: You ever go to a Fridays that has, like, a lower level and an upper level [Dre: No.] and a bar level and a side level?
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Wow.
Austin: Swiss Chalet could never do that. It’s one flat—
Sylvia: Right.
Dre: A city!
Janine: This is also not…this is not my experience of a Swiss Chalet. This, to me, is a lot closer to, like, fast food but there are fancier booths.
Austin: This is exactly like the Swiss Chalet I used to go to.
Janine: It’s fast food, but there’s restaurant booths. But for me—
Austin: Your Swiss Chalet is different than this? All right, I'm gonna look around.
Janine: Yeah, the Swiss Chalet in my town that I'm thinking of is, like…
Austin: Do you see what I'm talking about?
Keith: That’s a Burger King. [laughter] 
Dre: [laughs] Sweatpants Joe.
Janine: Sweatpants Joe.
Sylvia: [laughing] No.
Keith: This is just—
Ali: I know I was correct with Sizzler on, like, a bunch of different axes, so I don't have to… [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Defend that? I mean, look.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: This is a Sizzler— Ali, this is what I was looking at when you said Sizzler.
Janine: This is so weird. This is not…this is not my Swiss Chalet. [Sylvia laughs] 
Austin: Okay. What do you—
Janine: This is not what I know.
Keith: And, to me, that’s a food court. I think I hit it with food court, for me.
Ali: Yeah, yeah.
Dre: Actually, this reminds me of a Perkins. Any of y'all ever been to a Perkins?
Austin: Yeah!
Keith: No.
Austin: It’s a Perkins!
Dre: Okay. 
Keith: I don't know what a Perkins is.
Austin: It’s a Perkins.
Ali: No, I don’t…
Keith: That’s my AP Euro teacher.
Ali: Yeah. [laughs] Shoutouts.
Austin: Is this more like yours, Janine?
Keith: Swiss Chalet’s my AP Euro teacher? [Dre and Ali laugh]
Austin: Is this exterior like yours, Janine?
Janine: Uh, kinda, yeah.
Austin: Is there a robot?
Keith: Oh, it’s got a robot.
Austin: Do you have a robot?
Dre: Oh!
Janine: Mine does not have a robot, I don't think.
Austin: Yet.
Sylvia: Wow.
Keith: But there is— I think this does—
Sylvia: [mock condescending] Your Swiss Chalet doesn't have a robot? Oh my god. 
Dre: Wow.
Keith: This does introduce, like—
Janine: I don't live in the city! [Ali and Sylvia laugh]
Keith: This does intro—
Austin: A city like Vaughan Ontario?! [laughs] 
Dre: Man, the urban/rural divide grows.
Janine: Yeah, Vaughan’s, like— isn't Vaughan just outside of Toronto?
Sylvia: I feel like…
Austin: I don't know where Vaughan is.
Sylvia: Yeah, that's so great.
Janine: Where’s Vaughan?
Austin: Okay, population 300,000. Yeah, I've never heard of this city.
Keith: This does, though—
Austin: Yes, it’s a municipality of York. Okay, you're right.
Janine: Yeah, yeah, yeah. That’s— 
Sylvia: Right, yeah.
Janine: Rich people live there. 
Austin: Uh huh.
Janine: They got robots.
Sylvia: York region. Oh boy.
Keith: I think this does bring up, like, there is sort of a weirdness to restaurant hierarchy where, like, when you said that TGI Fridays is above a Denny’s, I know what you mean, [Austin: Yeah.] but also, like, TGI Fridays is so much trashier to me than a Denny’s is.
Austin: Mm…
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: I agree. I agree. Mm…the thing is, like, once we get into the Denny’s, like, once we get into, like, the fast diner category, I have lots of opinions.
Ali: Right.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: And Denny’s is very low on that.
Keith: Oh, yeah.
Ali: That’s why Friendly’s was such a useful metric, 'cause like—
Austin: Thank you.
Ali: It’s a sit-in service, but like…
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: The vibes are off.
Austin: The vibes are off!
Dre: And this robot sucks.
Keith: At TGI Fridays, you mean, the vibes are off?
Austin: No.
Ali: No, at a Friendly’s.
Austin: At Friendly’s. Friendly’s.
Keith: Oh, at Friendly’s, the vibes are off.
Ali: I think Friendly’s is, like, the bottom floor, in terms of, like, table service.
Austin: It’s pretty low.
Keith: I used to think that, and now, to me, it’s Fridays.
Ali: Sure.
Austin: Uh, I've been to Fridays that are fine. 
Keith: Because it’s so much more expensive. It’s dark and black.
Austin: The thing is that people at Fridays have to deal with drunk people.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: People at Denny’s— I mean, people at Denny’s have to deal with drunk people, but they’re not getting drunk at the Denny’s.
Dre: Yeah, they’re not getting drunk there. 
Ali: Right.
Dre: They just did it before.
Austin: They might be getting drunk— they might be getting drunk at the Denny’s. It depends on what they brought with them. [Ali laughs] But generally speaking, they’re not dealing with drunk people [Keith: Yeah.] the way that the service at a Fridays has to.
Ali: Right.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: So I cut them more slack, I think.
Keith: Yeah. Well, it’s not the service.
Janine: There’s robotic cats. 
Dre: You don't have to get into a fight at TGI Fridays to refuse drinking to someone.
Austin: Exactly.
Keith: It’s not the service, really. It is the, like…
Austin: It’s dark in there.
Keith: The aesthetics of the interior, and it’s the menu, the quality of the menu.
Austin: Yeah, but the aesthetics of a Fridays, to me, are like, trying something more than this is, which is…Keith, when you said food court, like, this is [Keith: Yeah.] food court furniture, to me.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: It’s, like, one step up from food court furniture.
Keith: Yeah, totally, yeah.
Austin: The chairs are kind of— I kind of like these chairs. They’re fine. But like, you know.
Keith: I've been to a mall that is— these are almost the exact chairs [Austin: Right.] at that mall, at the Providence mall.
Austin: Now, I want to be extremely clear: I would go to the Swiss Chalet right now.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: That sounds like a great time.
Keith: Oh, for sure.
Austin: So.
Keith: And I would not go to a TGI Fridays right now.
Dre: Oh, damn, this kid’s headbanging. Let’s go! [laughs] 
Austin: Headbanging back there. Damn! [Janine laughs] Kids are scary.
Ali: Is that Chewbacca? 
Austin: Back there?
Ali: Or a ska guy.
Austin: What? Oh. [Ali laughs]
Keith: Do you know where I was today, because my whole family really wanted to go?
Austin: Where?
Ali: Mm-hmm?
Keith: Today I was at a Texas Roadhouse for Mother’s Day.
Ali: Wow.
Austin: Texas Roadhouse.
Dre: You could do worse.
Austin: I don't know Texas Roadhouse.
Keith: You could do worse. It wasn't—
Dre: You could do better, but you could do worse.
Austin: Hmm.
Keith: It was— well…
Sylvia: That’s the slogan.
Keith: The thing is, when I walk into a restaurant now—
Dre: Hey. That is a fine Louisville, Kentucky founded establishment.
Austin: Oh, I see. 
Dre: Okay?
Sylvia: Oh.
Keith: When I— oh, do some people not know of Texas Roadhouse?
Austin: I didn't.
Keith: I sort of thought this was everywhere.
Ali: I think I don't, yeah.
Keith: It’s a steakhouse. 
Austin: It’s like an Outback?
Keith: It’s very much like an Outback. I think that they’re aim— okay, it has a fake blooming onion on the menu [Dre: Yeah.] called the cactus blossom.
Ali: Okay, sure. 
Austin: Okay, yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: I got it. It was fine, except for the sauce sort of—
Austin: Wait, this is the logo? That’s even just the Outback logo.
Dre: Yeah. Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Janine: Hmm.
Austin: Okay.
Keith: So it’s like: what if Outback but Republican American?
Ali: Mm, mm-hmm.
Austin: Right, I see.
Dre: Yeah. You can throw the peanuts on the floor.
Austin: Oh! They used to—
Janine: I didn't know Outback wasn't that.
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: Well. Not explicitly.
Keith: Well, it’s Australian themed.
Ali: Right.
Austin: Yeah, it’s not American themed, I'll tell you that much.
Janine: Right.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: There used to be a place near me called Longhorn Steakhouse or something like that.
Keith: Oh, yeah, yeah.
Austin: That was similar.
Keith: This is, like, one step below Longhorn.
Dre: Yeah. It is.
Austin: That was peanuts on the floor.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: You know?
Dre: Longhorn is, like, one step up, like Keith said.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Sure.
Dre: Not a big step, but a step.
Keith: It’s the sort of place where I have to go…I have to order the chicken, because I would be too disappointed to eat the steak.
Dre: Yes, you would.
Austin: The steak wouldn't be up to your quality? [Keith laughs]
Janine: Mm.
Austin: Gotcha. You feel like that about—
Keith: And it’s also, like, 10 bucks more.
Austin: I mean, yeah, sure. Of course. 
Keith: Yeah, so it’s like, what, am I gonna spend $35 to get a steak that isn't very good?
Austin: A mid steak? Yeah.
Keith: Or $22 to get a chicken that is decent?
Janine: Yeah.
Austin: Right, sure.
Dre: Wow.
Austin: I…my heart goes out to everybody who works food service in any…
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Well, this is what I was bringing this up for.
Austin: Wait, is he on a…
Keith: He is on a—
Austin: Why is he on a saddle?
Keith: He’s on a saddle. I think it’s— oh, it’s the birthday song, yeah.
Austin: Excuse me?
Dre: Oh.
Keith: Yeah, they put you on a saddle and sing “Happy Birthday” to you.
Dre: Now, I've never seen that.
Janine: No.
Sylvia: I don't like that.
[video audio: people chanting, “One, two, three, yeehaw!” followed by cheering and shouting]
Dre: Yeehaw!
Austin: Oh, I hate it.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: I didn't know they could find a way to make that experience worse. [Austin laughs] The way they did it is…
Sylvia: Yeah, honestly.
Keith: Yeah.
Janine: Get over here and sit on this saddle.
Austin: Uh huh.
Keith: Their goal— it’s sort of—
Sylvia: I would rather have my head chopped off than have someone [Austin: Same.] sing me a birthday song in a restaurant.
Austin: Same.
Keith: It’s a respectable goal to say, “We’re going to embarrass you as much as doing this embarrasses us.”
Dre: Sure.
Ali: Mm.
Janine: It already does that! [Keith laughs] I'm not getting paid when they’re singing at me, at least. That makes it worse.
Austin: Mm.
Keith: Neither are they!
Dre: Yeah, no.
Janine: They get paid for— I mean, they’re paid— well. [Dre laughs] Okay, Canada and U.S. It’s different up here. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Uh huh.
Janine: Up here, they’re paid. They could be paid more, [Keith: Yeah.] but they are paid for singing.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Oh, yeah. I've never been paid for singing “Happy Birthday”. It was always someone would— you'd go into the back. There’s a big group. You'd be like, “Please, will you sing Happy Birthday with me?” “No.” “PLEASE, will you sing Happy Birthday with me?”
Austin: Mm.
Keith: “No.” “PLEASE, will you sing Happy Birthday with me?! No one else will do it.” “Okay, fine.” You get three people to do it, and everybody hates it, and you just do the best you can, and while you're doing it, all the tables you're supposed to be looking after are getting increasingly upset with you, while you sit and watch them blow out their candles.
Ali: Yay.
Keith: Anyway, every time I walk into a restaurant, I get just a sort of psychic sensation of what it would be like to work at that particular restaurant. 
Janine: Right.
Keith: Texas Roadhouse scored almost the lowest it had ever… 
Dre: Oh, I'm sure it’s awful. [Ali laughs]
Keith: And that was before my grandma ordered a complicated cocktail, and there was, like, six follow-up questions about how she wanted the cocktail, if she wanted [Sylvia sighs] a test tube of Patrón added to it? [Ali laughs]
Dre: Let’s go. Let’s go!
Keith: And it came with—
Janine: What?
Dre: I'm coming back around. 
Keith: It came with a test tube of Patrón, like, sort of stuck in it, and then you take it out and pour it on top.
Dre: Now, Keith, you said this was bad, and I don't understand.
Keith: Well, it was bad, because she was confused and, like, didn't understand what was going on and why her drink order needed five follow-up questions.
Dre: Well, it sounds like you're grandma needs to learn how to party, Keith. I don't know what to tell you. [Austin laughs quietly]
Keith: Oh, she drank it. [Austin and Ali laugh]
Dre: Okay. Okay!
Keith: She drank it. She was too— we were gonna play a board game. We were gonna play Mysterium after, and she was like, “I can't play Mysterium anymore.”
Ali: Aw! [laughs] 
Austin: Aw.
Keith: Yeah.
Austin: Grandma…
Janine: You were gonna play Mysterium at the restaurant?
Keith: No, no, when we got back to…
Janine: Okay.
Austin: To…yeah.
Keith: Back to her house, yeah. We watched the John Mulaney special instead.
Austin: How was that?
Keith: Uh, it was fine. It felt rushed, because he really needed to get something out there.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Janine: Hmm.
Austin: Okay. That’s— yeah, that adds up.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Time—
Austin: Uh, I actually need five more minutes, because I just remembered I need to get another thing prepped.
Ali: Okay.
Austin: I'll be right back. Y'all can keep going.
Ali: Well.
Sylvia: Who did you guys vote for in the Pacino versus De Niro hot poll?
Janine: What?
Keith: I don't know what poll you're talking about.
Dre: What?
Sylvia: I'm gonna link it for you, then. [Ali laughs]
Dre: Okay.
Sylvia: ‘Cause I wanna know.
Ali: I saw this, but then I didn't…you know, I don't feel like I have the…
Sylvia: I'm a Pacino girly, but I feel like that’s expected.
Ali: Okay. Yeah.
Keith: I don't know—
Sylvia: There’s the movie where he tries to rob a bank to pay for his girlfriends fucking, uh, GRS.
Ali: Oh, yeah.
Sylvia: Like, how am I not there for that?
Keith: I think it’s— before I'm looking at this, I think it’s gotta be Pacino. Young Pacino’s a smokeshow.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Who are we— it’s Pacino versus who?
Keith: De Niro.
Sylvia: It’s young Al Pacino versus young Robert De Niro. Who is hotter?
Ali: I feel like maybe—
Sylvia: And it’s, like, 0.2% difference in it right now, so all my friends keep posting about it. [Ali and Sylvia laugh]
Ali: I feel like De Niro grew up hotter?
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: I agree.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: I agree.
Ali: But young Pacino was hotter.
Keith: Yes.
Dre: Yeah, no, I'm 100% with Ali. Looking at these pictures.
Ali: Yeah, this is— I have to—
Sylvia: It’s, like—
Ali: When I saw—
Sylvia: De Niro, like, peaked— oh, sorry, go ahead.
Ali: No, no, no. You go on.
Sylvia: I was gonna say De Niro, like, peaked around like, Heat for me.
Ali: Mm.
Sylvia: I think he was, like, 40s then, but I could be wrong. I'm bad with ages.
Keith: What year is Heat?
Sylvia: I don't— Heat was the ‘90s, wasn't it?
Keith: Yeah. ‘Cause I would have thought that De Niro peaks at…
Sylvia: I mean, I'm just speaking for myself. [Ali laughs]
Dre: Sure.
Keith: Well, 'cause I was just thinking about it. Why am I blanking on the name? Goodfellas, which is probably only a couple years before that.
Sylvia: Goodfellas is also pretty good.
Keith: Yeah. I'm looking at this one picture, and I'm like, I can't even tell which one this is supposed to be. I think this is De Niro. [Sylvia laughs] 
Ali: [laughs] Twitter is so weird.
Sylvia: Twitter’s so dumb. It’s so fucking dumb.
Ali: Twitter is so weird. [laughs] 
Sylvia: I'm barely even looking at it, but for some reason, when I just saw this today, it’s been, like, in my brain, and I'm like, “Which one? Hmm.”
Ali: I'm trying to scroll through these pictures to do my research, and I get a picture of Betty Boop jackin’ off? 
Sylvia: What the fuck?
Ali: Like, what are we doing here?
Dre: Yo, what?
Sylvia: What are we doing here? [Ali laughs]
Janine: Hang on, what?
Ali: Someone— it’s like, four tweet. It’s four pictures, right? So it’s, like, three pictures of Pacino and then…
Sylvia: Oh, and then Betty Boop jackin’ off.
Ali: A picture of Betty Boop, you know, uh, responding.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, there it is. Wow! [Ali laughs] That’s a terrible picture. 
Ali: It’s a little much.
Sylvia: It’s a little bit much! [Ali laughs] I'm so sorry.
Dre: Oh! Oh no!
Keith: I don't know. I haven't seen anything.
Dre: No, no, no, no!
Ali: I mean…
Dre: It’s horrific. [Sylvia and Ali laugh]
Ali: Damn.
Sylvia: Damn!
Keith: I haven't seen— I don't know what you're talking about.
Janine: Oh. Okay, I see. [Ali laughs]
Sylvia: Horrific?
Keith: Oh. I found it. Okay. [Ali and Sylvia laugh]
Ali: A good time together.
Keith: You said, “jacking off.” I heard, “jacket off.”
Ali: Oh, sure, sure, sure.
Janine: That’s also true.
Keith: And I'm like, Betty Boop’s jacket? [Ali laughs] I'm like, does Betty Boop wear a jacket? Is there someone named Benny Boop that I don't know about that famously has a jacket on? [Ali, Janine, and Keith laugh]
Sylvia: God.
Ali: Nope.
Keith: But no, I found it.
Ali: Yeah. [Ali and Dre laugh]
Janine: This is like when I realized that, like, Betty Boop’s design occupies a similar place in my brain as, like, Pokémon I don't like.
Ali: Oh, wow.
Keith: Yeah, I feel that same way, yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Ali: Wow.
Keith: Yeah, that nailed it. Yeah, that’s exactly right.
Ali: Just, wow.
Keith: Ali— what do you think about Betty Boop then, Ali?
Ali: I have an aunt who’s really into Betty Boop.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: Mm.
Janine: I think everyone does. 
Ali: [laughs] So.
Keith: And Betty Boop is for aunts. 
Janine: Betty Boop, like Marilyn Monroe, is, for some people, a personality type. 
Ali: Yeah.
Keith: Virginia is for lovers, Toronto’s for field trips, and Betty Boop is for aunts. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: Sure.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I can see “Betty Boop is for aunts” on, like, a cross stitch thing. [Keith laughs]
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Yeah, I can see it very clearly.
Keith: Yeah, I don't— I know that it’s because it’s from the past, but I look at Betty Boop, and I don't understand what I'm supposed to think about it.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Mm.
Janine: Cartoons all looked bad for a while, I think is…
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: True.
Janine: I think there’s a filter there that’s, like, difficult to get past.
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah.
Dre: Hey, Austin.
Ali: Hey, Austin.
Keith: Hello.
Austin: Hi.
Dre: You didn't miss anything.
Janine: Hi. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Al Pacino. This debate has been killing me all day.
Ali: Oh, yeah?
Austin: The idea that Al Pacino is losing this is—
Ali: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: I think it should be close.
Sylvia: Thank you!
Austin: I think Rob should be in the mix, but Al Pacino, come on.
Keith: There’s a couple really great De Niro pictures.
Austin: There are. You know what? There’s a couple. [Ali laughs] There’s a couple.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: You know how many good young Al Pacino—
Janine: We were talking about the Betty Boop cameo in there.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Oh, I didn't see.
Ali: Don't worry about it.
Austin: Wait.
Ali: Yeah, don't worry about it. 
Sylvia: Don't—
Ali: Don't worry about it.
Sylvia: It’s bad. Don't scroll down. [Janine laughs]
Austin: Okay. I'm scrolling.
Sylvia: Okay. Well. [Ali laughs]
Austin: I'm curious. Yeah.
Ali: Everybody gets to listen to each of us separately discover this. [laughs] 
Austin: She’s just in the mix, huh? [Ali, Sylvia, and Janine laugh] 
Ali: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Best way to put it.
Austin: Do you think this was…I love the person who responded to— have we already done all this material? Is this material done?
Ali: We didn't look through responses. We just…
Sylvia: Mm…
Austin: You didn't?
Sylvia: We kind of got focused on Betty. [Ali laughs]
Austin: So you didn't see the person—?
Dre: Uh, we looked at one response! 
Austin: The first person who responded to it just said, “Loved him in Cape Fear. *heart-eyes* *heart-eyes* *drool*” [all laugh] The second person said, “No way you used Cape Fear”! What is happening?! [laughter] All right. Maybe Betty is in circulation, you know what I mean? Maybe this is a common response image.
Ali: You know what? Yeah. Maybe it is.
Austin: Across the web in such a way.
Sylvia: I haven't seen it.
Austin: Yeah, I know. [Ali laughs] I know. I understand.
Janine: It could be new. We could be witnessing a cutting-edge meme emerging.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Ali: Oh.
Janine: Emerging to our strata of meme awareness.
Austin: Right.
Sylvia: I hope not.
Keith: Oh, wow. Y'all remember “Betty Boop jacking off” era Twitter? [Ali and Janine laugh] That was really the best era of Twitter.
Austin: You know what? It is better than now. I would go to “Betty Boop jackin’ off” Twitter era. [Ali laughs]
Dre: It is now, Austin. 
Austin: Well, no, because it’s— I mean—
Keith: It’s the future.
Austin: It could be the future. Maybe it’s a better future. Maybe these are brighter days of…you know?
Dre: New CEO of Twitter gets named—
Austin: Right, exactly. 
Dre: —and immediately posts Betty Boop jerking off, yeah.
Ali: Mm, mm-hmm.
Austin: God. All right. Time.is?
Sylvia: Someone did link my favorite Al Pacino fancam in there.
Ali: Time.
Janine: Captions it, “For my friends.” [Ali laughs]
Dre: That feel when you gotta clean up Elon’s mess. [Austin groans] Betty Boop picture.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Ugh.
Austin: Uh, top of the minute.
Dre: Sure.
[they clap]
Janine: I was late.
Austin: All right. Uh, 8 seconds. 
[they clap] 
Cut [0:27:26]
Sylvia: What?
Keith: To the Discord ones?
Sylvia: Oh, like to the Discord ones?
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: I don't know if there’s a way to.
Keith: Yeah, I don't know if there’s a way to.
Austin: Wait, what do you mean?
Ali: Oh, it’s under Text and Images.
Austin: Uh huh?
Ali: So, in situations, you want to use one or the other, and if I type “:(“...
Austin: Oh. I understand. Yep. Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep.
Ali: And you make that motherfucker a smiley face without alerting me?
Sylvia: Oh, yeah.
Austin: Right. Right. When you use that one, you're trying to communicate a different feeling than just a regular smiley face.
Ali: Yeah. 
Austin: I will say regular—
Ali: Also, who’s ever using the normal smiley face?
Austin: I now use regular smiley face instead of upside down smiley face.
Ali: Oh, sure, sure, sure.
Austin: I've, like…unless I'm talking to somebody who’s, like, not online the way they used to be. Like, if I'm talking to somebody who hasn't been online in, like, five years, I'll still use upside down face.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Austin: But with someone who is, like, as online as I am, I'm just all the way blackpilled. A regular smiley face is sarcastic now, you know?
Ali: Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I understand that. And, I mean, it looks like— compared to the other smiley faces, you get there.
Austin: Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Ali: But aesthetically, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] emotionally, [Austin: Mm-hmm.] conversationally—
Austin: You know what I haven't moved onto?
Ali: There’s a difference between using the, like, text things and the emoji.
Austin: Yes. I agree with you. A lot of people I know now use sneezing face to use what I would use— what I've been using sobbing face for, which is like, a cute animal or a heartwarming moment. I know people who use sneezing face for that now. [Sylvia laughs]
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I would just think you had allergies.
Austin: You know, well, this is getting old, you know?
Dre: Mm.
Austin: The kids are all using sneezing face.
Sylvia: Okay. Well, I'm gonna start using sneezing face now.
Austin: Sneezy face is in. You know? It’s all changed up. Everything’s gotten…different.
Sylvia: I mean, this is why I just—
Ali: I feel like I would use sneezy—
Sylvia: Oh, go ahead?
Ali: [laughs] I would use sneezy face in, like, a situation where I was describing a time where, like, I kinda flubbed up.
Austin: I could see that.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: Like, oh, my train was late. Sneezy face.
Austin: Mm, that’s fun.
Sylvia: I've just fully moved onto, like, DeviantArt style, like, ascii emoji type shit.
Ali: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Austin: Right. No, I get it. Yeah. We’re back around.
Sylvia: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: This is why Ali wants to disable the translation.
Ali: Right.
Austin: Right? 
Sylvia: Like, I'm posting, like…
Ali: But yeah, I…
Sylvia: The pointing up caret, a W, and a pointing up caret.
Austin: Oh, right.
Sylvia: And I'm like, that’s how you know I'm happy.
Ali: Right, yeah.
Austin: Oh, I see. Yes. Yes.
Ali: The pointing up caret with the lowercase O.
Sylvia: Really good.
Ali: [laughs] The pointing up caret is…
Austin: Oh, yeah, that’s a classic.
Sylvia: That’s a good one.
Ali: That’s a classic.
Austin: I'm a big n.n;;;
Ali: Oh, duh. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Austin: You know? Sweat drops.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Ali: Uh huh.
Janine: That really was the divide of the time, right? Like, who’s using the carets versus who’s using the lowercase N’s?
Austin: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Let me tell you.
Austin: They’re different energies.
Sylvia: I used both.
Janine: Yeah.
Sylvia: Just depends on the mood.
Austin: Yeah. 
Janine: The N’s, to me, always felt younger. It felt more, like, middle school.
Keith: What is this for?
Sylvia: Emoji. Like…
Austin: You know, emoji.
Sylvia: Like, emoji faces. 
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: I'll pop an example…
Janine: Kaomojis.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: The level of abstraction on emoji has…
Austin: Oh, that’s a good one, Sylvi.
Sylvia: Thank you.
Keith: It’s well beyond me. I don't…
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: I don't speak it anymore.
Ali: I'm back. I'm full in. I never left, is the thing, so I have a lot of opinions about it. [laughs] 
Austin: Yeah, you've been on this. This has been you. [Ali laughs] Yeah. I agree with that.
Ali: I think, very early on in the AMCA chat, I used n.n with the semicolons, and I was like, wait a minute. [Ali and Janine laugh quietly] I can't do this in the current company. [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Yes, you— well. Yeah.
Ali: Not then, but now.
Austin: Yeah, now you can. Now you can.
Keith: For a million dollars, I couldn't have told you what that n.n was supposed to be saying.
Ali: What?
Keith: Now I know, because it’s next to the carets. I don't— that looks—
Janine: Wow.
Keith: To me, that looks like a crying face.
Austin: It’s sweat drops. It’s the same as this.
Keith: Oh.
Austin: Yeah.
Keith: Oh.
Sylvia: Yeah, I typically do a little that.
Austin: You do one of those.
Keith: I couldn't…
Austin: There you go. Yeah.
Ali: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: None of this says anything to me.
Ali: Typically, if you're doing them…
Sylvia: You weren't in anime club, were you, Keith?
Janine: Mm.
Keith: No.
Sylvia: Then, there you go.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Keith didn't have the anime club.
Keith: I was uncool in a different way.
Austin: Okay, okay, okay.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I was watching anime. I just wasn't friends with anyone else that was. [Ali laughs]
Janine: Right.
Sylvia: Oh, I mean, I wasn't friends with any of them, but I did found the club. [laughs quietly] 
Austin: [laughs] Wow!
Keith: I wasn't hanging out with people I wasn't friends with to talk about anime.
Austin: I probably—
Sylvia: To be fair, I think it was more they didn't like me.
Austin: Fuck ‘em.
Janine: Aw.
Austin: You know what I say, Sylvi? Fuck ‘em.
Sylvia: Oh, no, listen. They were also right to. In high school? They were right to. [Ali laughs]
Austin: Okay, sure.
Dre: Both can be true. It can both be “fuck ‘em” and also maybe people had points.
Austin: If not for the Hofstra—
Sylvia: Like, I didn't know how to be a conscious edgelord yet. I was just an edgelord.
Austin: Sure.
Sylvia: You know? 
Austin: Regular edgelord.
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvia: There was no ethics to it.
Austin: Yeah.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hofstra’s anime club kind of preceded Hofstra’s gaming club, and I have good friends who I met through Hofstra’s anime club, including, indirectly, Ali.
Ali: Hello!
Austin: So, you know. We might not be here without that.
Sylvia: Damn.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: So.
Ali: Keith, were you ever on Gaia Online, or did you ever interact with an anime webring?
Keith: No. I don't even know what that is.
Sylvia: God damn!
Ali: Oh, wow. Okay. 
Keith: I know about it. I just don't know what it is.
Ali: Sure.
Keith: It’s like…it’s just, like, a weird…it’s like a weird MMO. It’s like a social MMO?
Sylvia: Like, not even, but kind of?
Janine: Mm.
Ali: It was like a— yeah.
Sylvia: It was like a forum with MMO elements. You got gold for posting.
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: Love that. Love that description of it.
Ali: And then you could get outfits. Anyway.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Austin laughs quietly]
Keith: And what does Gaia Online do for you?
Ali: It was just a place—
Sylvia: Uh, lets you pretend to be a girl when you're closeted. [Ali, Austin, and Janine laugh]
Ali: You could buy devil wings for your little guy.
Sylvia: Oh, I had the angel wing guitar. It was very rare.
Keith: I mean, well, what does it have to do with…?
Austin: If you were on Gaia Online, you would know what all these faces meant, is what…
Keith: Mm.
Ali: Yeah, I was trying to think of other [Janine: Yeah.] places in your life where you could have interacted with these things.
Austin: Mm-hmm.
Keith: No. I…again, I'm staggered by it every time it comes up, but I've spent my whole life on the internet without having become online in this way. I don't…
Austin: I love it for you. I do.
Ali: Uh huh.
Keith: I didn't know that I wasn't. I would have said— if someone said, like, “Oh, are you online?” I'd be like, “Oh yeah, I'm so online,” [Ali laughs quietly] but then every time people who are actually online are talking, I'm like, “I don't know what the fuck you're talking about.” [Janine and Ali laugh]
Austin: That’s how it goes. There’s different— there’s levels.
Sylvia: You adopted the online. I was born in it. 
Austin: Uh huh. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Molded by it, et cetera.
Austin: Can we “three, two, one, clap”?
Keith: Yeah.
Ali: Mm-hmm.
Janine: Mm-hmm.
Austin: Okay. Three, two, one… [they clap]
[“No Crisis” by Jack de Quidt plays]