Clapcast 63: Personal Submarines
Transcriber: robotchangeling


Janine: We have a place in town that's all milk tea, and I despise them, because it's just a cruelty. [Ali laughs quietly] It's just a cruel thing they've done to me.


Austin: All right, well, this is strong. Now you're– I don't despise the people who make the things that I hate or that hurt me. Okay, some of the ones that make things that hurt me. 


Janine: No, but I want to love it. 


Austin: I see.


Ali: Where’s team Lactaid?


Janine: I want to love it and drink it and have it, but I can't. 


Austin: Right. 


Janine: So, I– liquid milk is…I don't know how much Lactaid I would have to take to be okay with it. 


Austin: Mm.


Ali: Sure.


Janine: It's one of those things where just, like, it doesn't work out. I could do cheese. I could do ice cream. I can do a lot of other things, but liquid milk is a problem. [Ali laughs quietly]


Austin: Mm-hmm. Doing a tweet.


Art: I don't like thinking of it as liquid milk. I understand the [Austin: “Right”] accuracy of the statement, but it’s… 


Janine: Is solid milk better?


Art: Uh…


Austin: We can't keep doing this. I will puke on stream. 


Janine: Okay, we'll stop. Let’s stop. We’ll stop.


Ali: [laughs] Were you requesting that I tweeted?


Austin: I did the tweet. 


Ali: Oh.


Austin: No, I was saying I was doing the tweet.


Janine: I really miss being able to just enjoy milk. I miss it so much. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: Aw.


Austin: It was like a defining thing in my mind of who Janine was.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: Was like having a nice glass of milk before bed. That was a you thing.


Janine: Yeah. I can still kind of do that, but like…


Austin: Yeah.


Janine: Lactose free milk is weird. 


Austin: Yeah.


Janine: It's like sweet. 


Ali: Mm.


Janine: It's like, because the sugar’s broken down, so it tastes sweeter. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: Which means the full fat ones just, to me, taste like ice cream water. And like, I did the whole– I tried all of the plant milks I could find, and most of those also just have like sugar and shit added to them, and if they don't, they just taste like cereal.


Ali: Mm-hmm. [Janine sighs] Yeah, the sip is never right on a plant.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: Yeah. I do really, really enjoy oat milk with coffee, but…and like, I think of the ones I drank on their own, oat milk was like the most successful one, but…


Art: Yeah, I enjoy an oat milk as someone who just doesn't care for milk.


Ali: Mm.


Janine: Yeah.


Art: Liquid milk.


Ali: It’s very oaty.


Janine: It is, but like…


Art: Well, if have it with a cereal, I find that it fades out, you know?


Austin: Yeah, it’s overwhelmed by other flavors.


Janine: I think the thing for me is that, like, the moment that I appreciate a glass of milk the most is… [laughs] is when it's like really cold right out of the fridge, and it's like maybe really early or really late, and I'm really thirsty, and I just get that glass of milk, and I just stand in the kitchen, I just drink the whole thing. [Ali laughs] And no other plant-based milk has a good–


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: Has given me a good experience on that front. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: Mm.


Janine: Whereas oat milk, like, you can do that. You can just drink that milk, and it's like, it's fine. I think a lot of it is that when you drink it very cold, a lot of the like oatiness kind of fades into the background, and that's what I want out of a milk, [Austin: “Mm-hmm”] is like the milkiness of milk also when it's cold and you're just drinking, it fades into the background, and it's just like a rich, nourishing beverage. You know? 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Janine: [laughs quietly] That's what I want.


Ali: Who doesn’t? [Janine and Austin laugh] Did we talk about how Time.is is green today?


Austin: Not for me. 


Janine: Oh.


Ali: [gasps] I just refreshed it, yeah.


Austin: Oh, I see it. I see it. 


Art: Oh, wow.


Austin: The actual little badge. 


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: The badge is Time.is is green and the little icon.


Ali: Yeah, and when you hover over the countries, they're green today too.


Austin: Oh, sure. Shoutout to Time.is.


Ali: Yeah. Very festive today.


Art: Shoutouts to Time.is.


Austin: I feel like we've done a lot of Time.is shoutouts over the years. Like, they've gotten their fair share of shoutouts. [Ali laughs]


Janine: “For every minute you are angry, you lose 60 seconds of happiness.”


Austin: Not true. Not true. It’s an assumption. It’s an assumption that I don’t want to–


Janine: Yeah, sometimes you feel good to be angry.


Austin: And sometimes my alternate– the thing I am when I'm not happy or angry is sad. 


Janine: That too.


Austin: That's just not accounted for here at all.


Ali: Mm.


Janine: That's true. 


Austin: I would rather often be angry than sad. Like, I'm so much more sad as a person than angry that angry is kind of a nice…no, it's not. I’m thinking about the times I've been like truly angry in the last year, and it's often caught up in sad, so I’ve changed my mind.


Janine: Oh. [Ali laughs]


Austin: The few times I’ve been–


Janine: Hey, it’s submarine day.


Austin: That’s nice.


Ali: Ooh!


Austin: Shoutouts. I guess?


Janine: That’s something to feel good about, right?


Art: Yeah. Happy about submarines.


Austin: I’m gonna–


Art: Wait, do you think it's the ship? 


Austin: Yeah. Yes.


Janine: Hmm.


Art: Okay. 


Austin: Yeah.


Janine: I don't. I think it's the sandwich.


Ali: Mm.


Austin: I'd be happier if it was the sandwich. 


Ali: Yeah. 


Austin: No, it’s not.


Janine: Oh, I don't like the green highlight. It's gross.


Ali: Oh.


Austin: It’s military submarines.


Art: The problem, I think–


Janine: They don’t need a day.


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Art: Well, I wish there were more nonmilitary submarines. 


Ali: Mm.


Art: I wish that like, in my life, I could ride a submarine.


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: You could. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Expensive.


Art: Can I? 


Janine: Yes. A lot of tourist destinations have like mini sub rides and stuff.


Austin: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.


Janine: Especially in Central and South America. You could ride a submarine. I don't even think it's that expensive. You couldn't ride in like a nuclear sub, probably. That's like…


Art: I hope not. 


Janine: You do need the military for that one, but. [laughs quietly] 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Art: Uh huh.


Janine: There's a lot of like…a lot of subs will take you down and show you like coral and stuff.


Art: Great. Maybe someday.


Austin: This holiday is explicitly about the purchase of the first Navy submarine from Holland.


Janine: Oh, that sucks.


Austin: Sorry, from…it's called the Holland, the USS Holland. It was purchased from…


Janine: Is it the Civil War one or something? 


Austin: No, it's the first modern commissioned submarine. 


Janine: Oh, okay. 


Austin: Which was purchased in 1897. 


Ali: Wow.


Art: Wow, that's older than I thought.


Austin: I wouldn't do it. I wouldn't get in there. Seems dangerous to me. 


Ali: Yeah, the first ever?


Janine: They did have a Civil War submarine, right?


Austin: Civil War, yeah, there was a Civil War sub.


Janine: I’m not imagining that? 


Austin: Yeah, the Turtle. 


Janine: Yeah, they had like a really bad one?


Austin: Mm-hmm. [laughs quietly] Yep, 1775. Actually, no, that's the Revolutionary War. The Revolutionary War one. David Bushnell– yeah, it’s the Turtle.


Janine: Oh.


Austin: As a means of attaching explosive charges to ships in the harbor.


Janine: Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Austin: That’s terrifying. It had oars. Do you understand?


Janine: Mm-hmm. Yeah. 


Austin: That's a nightmare.


Art: And water didn’t get in through the oar parts?


Austin: I don't know. He was a mechanical engineering expert.


Janine: Oilcloth? I don't know.


Austin: Yeah. That’s…


Art: I mean, a submarine, more than almost anything else, seems to be a thing that works or it doesn't. Like, you can't halfway a submarine. [laughs quietly] 


Austin: Yeah.


Art: It's not like you're gonna be in a submarine that– oh, well, maybe I don't…I was like, “You're not going to be in a submarine that just sinks,” but maybe that's not true.


Austin: This thing looks like an oil barrel– not an oil barrel, like a cask, like a wine cask that just has a bunch of shit attached to it. This is a nightmare. I would not do this. I guess if I were doing a revolution to start a country, I would do it, but I'm not doing that, am I?


Art: This is not…this isn't a lot of people in here. [Ali laughs]


Austin: It’s one. It’s one people.


Art: This is a oner. 


Austin: Yeah.


Art: I don't know that I like that.


Austin: Oh, I'm just sending the same one twice. That’s not what I meant to do. I meant to send this.


Ali: What do you think about in there?


Austin: Probably how much you hate the king. [Ali and Janine laugh]


Ali: Yeah, same.


Austin: And don’t want to pay taxes, you know?


Janine: Yeah.


Art: But am I gonna hit the king with this? I mean… [Ali and Austin laugh] Look out, king! Here I come! You know, it's not… 


Austin: Ahh. [Ali laughs quietly]


Art: In my fucking walnut boat.


Janine: I like this thing, because it looks like if you did a movie about a mouse who was good at engineering, he would do this to an onion.


Ali: Mm.


Austin: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, it didn’t work. [Ali laughs] All the attempts to use this thing failed and her transport ship was sunk later that year.


Janine: Yeah, I was gonna say. Didn’t like everyone die who tried this or something?


Austin: Uh…it doesn't look– I'm not– they tried to attack the Eagle. That didn't work.


Art: I don't mean to be like “RIP to them, but I'm better,” but like, [Ali laughs] just get out. There's nothing in between you and out, you know? [laughs] Just, when it starts filling with water, push up and swim out.


Janine: Uh, it's water pressure. 


Ali: I don’t…yeah.


Janine: You know that– you never heard that thing about how, if you're in a car that goes into a river, you have to wait until the water fills the car and the pressure equalizes before you can open the door? You generally just cannot open the door otherwise.


Art: Right, yeah.


Janine: So I assume it’s a similar principle. 


Art: Well, that’s why you need the little hammer to break the– you're supposed to have a little hammer to break the window.


Janine: Yeah, or a screwdriver, I think, would work. 


Austin: Wild. All right.


Art: Well, I guess it doesn’t have any windows. [Ali laughs]


Austin: Yeah, I don't even know how you would see.


Janine: Maps. Everything…


Austin: Because I’m reading about it, and it’s like…


Janine: Oh, there's a little porthole on top, right? 


Austin: I guess. The thing that I’m reading about is like–


Janine: There's a little like circular thing that he’s like peeking out of.


Austin: He had to at least do something, because apparently he tried to blow it up. He tried to attach a bomb at one part. It didn't work, because apparently the timer on the explosive was like too close, and then maybe there was copper lining protecting the hull, so he tried to go somewhere else to try to attach it, and then when that didn't work– so like, he had to at least be able to be like, “Oh, I gotta go try a less armored part,” and if you can see at all–


Janine: Yeah.


Austin: I mean, to say that, you need to be able to see somewhere, so yeah, I guess it's up. Anyway, this whole thing is scary to me.


Janine: Yeah, I wouldn't do it. 


Austin: Anyway, we should do a podcast. We should clap.


Janine: We should do a clap.


Austin: Uh, 48 seconds. [clap] What happened?


Ali: What?


Janine: I think I was really early?


Austin: Oh.


Janine: Was I not? 


Austin: I heard two. I heard me and one other, so. We’re having weird claps these days.


Janine: I felt like I was a million– I felt like I was a whole minute early [laughs] and then just a tremendous silence between.


[transition: 0:10:38]


Austin: [to self] Go live. Publish now.


Janine: But we're missing this Paris Hilton quote that's on Time.is today. 


Jack: [laughs] What's the quote?


Ali: Time.is has a Paris Hilton quote? [laughs] 


Jack: Time.is? 


Janine: Yeah. Time.is says…are we live? Should I save this?


Austin: We’re live.


Janine: Okay. Time.is says: “The way I see it, you should live every day like it's your birthday.” Paris Hilton.


Ali: Mm.


Jack: Wow. Would that I could, you know? [Ali laughs]


Austin: Paris Hilton’s birthday is in February, so.


Janine: There's only so many monkey pictures you can buy. That's the problem.


Ali: Mm.


Austin: Uh huh.


Jack: Oh, yeah. Oh, right! I forgot she was a big– yeah.


Janine: Monkey, yeah.


Jack: Big NFT person. 


Austin: She's a monkey.


Ali: Right. Right. 


Janine: Aren’t we all?


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: In many ways. All right, there we go. Tweeted. There were some bad Time.is quotes the other day, and…


Janine: Uh oh.


Austin: That’s just how it goes. Eh, we’re good. We don't need to dig into the past.


Jack: Rehash the… [Ali laughs]


Austin: Austin Walker Time.is.


Ali: But can we…okay, I don't want to say “buy” Time.is, you know? [laughs] But like, in the way that the New York Times bought Wordle and was like, “Can we just see your list?”


Austin: Right, right, right.


Jack: Mm, yes.


Ali: [laughs] And apply some edits. I think that we use Time.is enough that we should create that sort of working relationship. 


Jack: Yeah. Now, like, alternatively…I hear you, Ali, but what if we do buy Time.is? [Ali laughs]


Austin: I don’t want to be responsible for Time.is.


Ali: Yeah, yeah. It's an important structure, but I will…you know, the department of quotes? [Jack laughs]


Austin: Right. 


Ali: You know, hit me up. 


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: Can we have a meeting with them and maybe try to work something out?


Ali: Uh huh.


Austin: So they don't do the things they're doing anymore, is what you're saying. [Ali laughs]


Jack: Ugh, God.


Austin: I don't know. I feel like you are just never going to live in a world where there are good time quotes.


Jack: What? Time is the thing! [quiet laughter] 


Austin: No, because there's just too many bad ones.


Jack: Oh, what, like every fool and his dog thinks that they can…?


Austin: Yeah.


Ali: I trust our curation.


Austin: I don't. [Ali laughs] I think you get lazy one Thursday, and you put a bad one in there, and then we’re responsible for that?


Jack: I can't think of a single quote about time. Yeah.


Ali: No, because they've already compiled them. We're just removing the cringe ones. 


Jack: Oh, we're editing them! Oh, that's very– yeah, okay, we should do that. [Jack and Ali laugh]


Austin: Oh, okay. You don’t think we’d get into duplicates quick?


Jack: Oh.


Ali: What are you– well, I don't think that they have 365 quotes. 


Austin: Yes, they do. Yeah, they totally do. 


Ali: Well, no, I mean they probably have more than that.


Austin: Oh, oh, oh. I see what you're saying. Yeah, but mmm, if we hit the same quote in two years, I feel like we'd be like, “Wait, we just got this one.”


Jack: No, no, no.


Ali: No.


Jack: Because we don't record every day.


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: You don't.


Jack: [laughs quietly] Yeah, that’s true.


Ali: [laughs] Well, sure.


Austin: I've really cut back on my Time.ising, so…


Ali: Mm, yeah.


Austin: But there was a time when I was. We would have those power users [Jack: “Yeah”] who were like, “This isn’t what I pay for.”


Jack: Oh, well, they’re–


Austin: In this future, we’d start a subscription service, by the way.


Ali: Mm, mm-hmm.


Jack: Now our answer here is very easy, Austin, which is we just start procedurally generating them and we get weird with it. 


Austin: Ah. Yeah, okay. Now I'm on board.


Ali: Mm.


Janine: Yeah, I literally, as this conversation was happening, I was like, I'm gonna–


Austin: You've opened up AI Dungeon.


Janine: I literally opened up AI Dungeon.


Austin: Uh huh. [Ali laughs quietly] 


Janine: And…ooh, okay!


Jack: Yeah, give us some quotes.


Janine: This is probably stolen. I don't believe the AI wrote this.


Austin: Uh huh. What is it?


Janine: I said to the AI, “Tell me a quote about time,” and the AI says, “Time you enjoy wasting isn't wasted time.” That's definitely a real quote. 


Austin: Yeah, that's real.


Janine: That's gotta be…


Ali: Mm-hmm.


Austin: At the very least, that’s a…


Janine: A therapist tells me that.


Austin: Yeah, I found 18 images about this. Beatrix Russell, says Google, but who knows if that's real, you know?


Ali: Yeah. Can’t trust Google these days.


Austin: Last time we were on…who was this? Who are we with? Who was on the call when we found the quote thing? Was that a Lancer thing?


Jack: Oh, yeah, I was there! Yeah, that was on Lancer. God, what was that?


Austin: Quoteinvestigator.com?


Jack: Quote Investigator. It's a deeply weird website. 


Janine: Oh.


Austin: Yeah, it's for when there's like someone says that like Albert Einstein said a quote, and you're like, “No, he didn't,”  and investigates to see if those sorts of misattributions are real and where they came from originally.


Ali: Oh, a quote Snopes.


Janine: Okay, so, follow up.


Austin: Uh huh.


Janine: I told the AI that they stole that [Austin: “Uh huh”] and asked them to make one up on their own.


Austin: Uh huh.


Janine: And they said, “Time you enjoy wasting isn't wasted honey, it's wasted life.”


Austin: This is the same AI that was very honey-obsessed the other night? Okay. 


Jack: Ohoho! [laughs quietly] 


Janine: Yes.


Austin: Okay, I see.


Jack: The ham AI. [Janine laughs]


Austin: The ham AI. [sighs] All right, are we ready to do a podcast?


Janine: Yeah.


Ali: I think so.


Austin: Okay. 


[transition: 0:15:32]


Keith: These works are based on the action role playing iOS video game Infinity Blade?


Sylvia: Hmm?


Keith: Two. Two Infinity Blade adaptations.


Jack: Yeah, there were some Infinity Blade novelizations. Remember when that game came out, and people were like, [mocking] “We can render 3D graphics on an iPhone,” [Austin: “I do”] and then three years later, they ported XCOM 2 to the iPhone?


Austin: I do. [Keith laughs] They were right.


Sylvia: I liked Infinity Blade. It was all right. 


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: I never played it.


Sylvia: It was just like Punch-Out!!


Keith: It was Punch-Out!!, yeah.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Keith: The problem was that people pretended that it was more than Punch-Out!!


Jack: I have a soft spot in my heart for stupid tech demos where it's like people being like, “Look at what the hardware can do!”


Sylvia: Yeah.


Jack: When the thing that they produce is like Knack or infamous kill. [Ali laughs] What's that game called? Killzone.


Austin: Killzone.


Jack: War zone or something.


Austin: I think it’s just Killzone. 


Jack: This is just like a– 


Sylvia: Any Killzone, yeah. 


Keith: Hey, some people like that.


Austin: Oh, are you saying the one that was on PSP? Are you saying a particular one of these?


Jack: The PS5 one.


Austin: Oh.


Jack: Where they were like, “We can do deferred rendering for the first time,” or whatever. 


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: And it just, the environments were so detailed, so overwhelmingly detailed that it was impossible to get a visual read on any single frame of the game. 


Sylvia: Yeah. 


Keith: That's how I felt about–


Austin: Wait, wasn’t that PS4 one? There hasn't been a Killzone on PS5 yet, right? 


Jack: Yeah, it was the PS4 one. Yeah, you're right.


Austin: You said PS5. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Shadow Fall.


Keith: That's how I felt about– that's why I couldn't ever play that Monster Hunter game that everyone really liked. There was just so much visually happening that I couldn't see.


Ali: Mm.


Sylvia: Rise? Or…


Austin: World, probably.


Keith: World, World.


Sylvia: Okay.


Austin: World is a lot, fairly. 


Jack: World is a lot.


Austin: World is a lot, as we've discussed.


Ali: Yeah.


Sylvia: I say this every day. [Austin laughs quietly] I wake up, and I just say, “World is a lot.”


Keith: World is a lot today.


Sylvia: Never stops being true.


Austin: We gonna Time.is? 


Keith: Sure.


Austin: Okay.


Keith: Oh, does someone have like a link to that…? I don't even remember the name of the website. 


Austin: Miro.


Keith: Miro link?


Austin: Yeah, I’ll link you.


Sylvia: Yeah, I’ve got it.


Austin: You got it? Okay.


Sylvia: Yeah, yeah.


Austin: Thank you. 


Sylvia: Oh, I put it in the scheduling chat, so whatever.


Jack: Oh, yeah, I'd forgotten that whatever this program is just absolutely forces my computer to work overtime.


Austin: Oh, does it? I didn't know that. 


Sylvia: We're overclocking Jack’s PC. [Austin laughs quietly]


Jack: We're overclocking my MacBook Air, actually.


Sylvia: Still technically a personal computer.


Jack: Yeah.


Austin: True.


Sylvia: It is personally your computer.


Austin: It is your personal computer. You're right.


Jack: It is. It is. Um, do we want to go at 15?


Austin: Yes. [disparate claps]


Keith: Nice. 


Austin: Mm… [Ali laughs] Let’s do one more at 25. One more at 25. [more cohesive claps] Okay. One of those will be good.


Ali: Hmm. [Jack laughs]


Keith: On my end, they both sounded good. 


Austin: Okay. [laughs quietly]


Keith: The claps were so in line that it didn't sound like there were as many people clapping as are here.


Sylvia: I fully fucked up the first one, so that's amazing, Keith. 


Keith: Oh, okay, okay, okay. 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Okay.


Ali: Oh, okay, sorry. [laughs quietly] 


Austin: Uh huh? Okay.


Ali: It does the little “here’s whose mouse is here” thing, and I was like, “Why did we write Keith J Carberry on this?”


Austin: Oh. Uh huh. [Keith and Ali laugh] Keith just did that.


Jack: It just started moving around.


Sylvia: Yeah. 


Austin: Yeah, uh huh.


Sylvia: That was Aliens in the Outfield. That’s a Bluff City game.


Austin: Uh huh. Different character, yeah.


Sylvia: It’s not in this universe. 


Austin: Different thing, uh huh.


Ali: True. 


Austin: All right.


Sylvia: I forgot we did that. [laughs quietly] 


Keith: I forgot that Aliens in the Outfield was called that, and I was just thinking, “Is Sylvi trying to say Angels in the Outfield?”


Sylvia: Nope.


Keith: “And also, I wasn’t in that.” [Ali and Sylvia laugh]


Sylvia: I don't know anyone from that movie. I can't make any jokes. [Austin laughs quietly]


Keith: Christopher Lloyd. [Jack laughs]


Sylvia: Sure. That movie came out like before I was born.


Austin: That's not true. Is that true? [typing]


Keith: I think that movie’s ‘98.


Sylvia: That movie came out two months after I was born.


Austin: Jesus.


Keith: Oh, ‘94.


Sylvia: Yeah. Don't doxx me! [Ali, Sylvia, and Austin laugh]


Keith: Sorry.


Jack: Sorry, sorry, 1794. [Austin and Sylvia laugh]


Sylvia: Thank you. 


Austin: The first film, Angels in the Outfield. [Sylvia laughs]


Keith: Christopher Lloyd plays the angel that loves the Angels, and Danny Glover plays the…


Sylvia: [laughing] They ducked when Christopher Lloyd threw a baseball. [laughter] 


Austin: Wha!


Keith: He mostly throws Angels players in that movie. 


Austin: He's like lifting them around and stuff?


Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.


Sylvia: Mm.


Austin: Helping them out.


Keith: He’s like puppeteering the Angels to make them win. 


Austin: Normal angel shit. Great.


Keith: So that a little kid’s shithead dad will hang out with him. [Austin laughs]


Sylvia: What?


Ali: Why not?


Austin: Okay.


Keith: Yeah, it's about this shitty dad who goes like, “I'll hang out with you more if the Angels win the pennant,” [Ali laughs] a thing that will obviously never happen, and so God intervenes.


Jack: I have a story about another baseball movie, Field of Dreams. 


Austin: Okay. [quiet laughter] 


Jack: Do you all know the story about creating the cornfield in Field of Dreams?


Sylvia: I know that they created it, but I don't know the story behind it. 


Jack: You know, there’s this cornfield that is like a central part of that movie, and they decided that they needed to have a set that they could use. 


Austin: Mm, mm-hmm.


Jack: So they were really, really anxious about planting the corn and getting it to look right for the scheduling, which meant that they wildly overestimated when they needed to plant it and how much they needed to plant. So by the time shooting started, the cornfield was like immensely higher than they thought it was going to be, and they basically like succeeded on every metric, which means that any scene in that movie where they're shooting in the fully grown cornfield, they had to run like elevated duck boards through the field [Austin: “Oh my God”] so that humans standing on them would be visible above the corn, [Keith laughs] when they were in fact standing on these like raised walkways because their damn corn had grown too much.


Austin: That’s wild.


Keith: That's so funny. The corn is dense and…I mean, it's good in the movie. It looks great.


Jack: Yeah, it looks too good, maybe.


Keith: Yeah, yeah. I mean, it looks ethereal. Like, it looks like another world, like people are emerging from another world, which is great.


[transition: 0:22:02]


Ali: Back to the research station.


Jack: Are we live?


Ali: Yeah.


Sylvia: Yeah, we’re not live for me.


Ali: Oh.


Sylvia: On the YouTube page.


Austin: We should be live.


Jack: It says, “Waiting for Friends at the Table,” to me.


Sylvia: Yeah.


Austin: Uh oh. It should be live. I haven't touched anything, but– I mean, I touched the part that said we should be live.


Janine: [laughs quietly] I was gonna say, you have to touch something to go live.


Sylvia: Oh, wait. There we go. I got it.


Jack: Oh, here we go.


Austin: Okay. 


Sylvia: But also, if you're in the chat, maybe say something.


Austin: Yeah.


Jack: Oh, yeah.


Austin: I mean, you know, we didn't do a lot of lead-in for this one, you know? [Jack laughs] So.


Sylvia: Okay, cool.


Janine: No, we kind of just sprung it on people, and also it's Halloween weekend night.


Austin: It’s Halloween weekend. Yeah, there are people here. Okay. Hello.


Jack: The Troll Research Station is served by the Troll Airfield, [laughs quietly] which is very cool.


Ali: Mm.


Sylvia: Okay. I really thought you were gonna say heiress.


Janine: I thought you were gonna say Troll Air Force. Oh, okay.


Sylvia: [laughs] Both really good! 


Janine: We went different directions. 


Austin: Mm-hmm.


Janine: Very fun, yeah. Both very fun.


Sylvia: She owns the Air Force.


Jack: [laughs] I see, right. God, this really does look like like US Arctic Research Station 104 or whatever from The Thing.


Austin: Would you live in Antarctica for any amount of real time? Like, months.


Sylvia: Absolutely not.


Jack: Uh, no. I'd visit it, but I wouldn't, no. 


Austin: What's the longest you would visit? 


Sylvia: I would not.


Jack: Uh, 10 days.


Austin: I’d go longer. I could do longer.


Ali: Yeah, it depends on what you're doing up there.


Janine: When was the station that I'm staying at built?


Ali: Ooh, yeah.


Austin: Uh, the Troll Research Station was built 1990.


Janine: Because the new ones look like college libraries to me.


Austin: This one's 1990.


Janine: That one probably feels like a college dorm, I'm gonna be honest. 


Austin: Well, looking at the photos…


Janine: Like, that’s what the vibe is on the interior of a lot of the ones that I've seen.


Austin: Mm. This looks like trailers to me, if I look at the Wikipedia on it. 


Janine: Eh.


Austin: I could do it.


Janine: I mean, this thing is…do they have internet? Do they have like a couch? Like, I know they have couches. I think they have bad internet.


Austin: What are you researching? What are they researching? Is it like the weather? What are they researching?


Jack: Aerosols and UV light. They're doing…


Ali: I could do that.


Jack: Based on what I can understand from the thing, and I'm not a scientist…


Austin: Right, uh huh.


Jack: It seems like they're looking at how certain conditions affect aerosols and UV light, which is…


Janine: But that's just from The Thing, right? That's not…that’s what they’re doing in The Thing?


Jack: [laughs] No, we– in The Thing, they’re tipping whiskey…


Austin: I think Jack meant “the thing” as in the website. 


Jack: What?


Austin: Jack, you said, “From what I can understand from the thing…”


Janine: No. I don't think that’s what Jack meant. [laughs quietly] 


Jack: Oh, no, from what I can understand from the website. By “the thing,” I meant the research section on the website. 


Austin: Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 


Janine: [laughs] Okay. Okay. 


Austin: Not The Thing the movie.


Jack: No one knows what they're researching. [Janine laughs]


Austin: Right. 


Jack: Because what happens, as far as I can understand, in The Thing is that MacReady pours some whiskey into a chess computer and then they are instantaneously attacked by an alien. [Janine laughs]


Austin: Ah, good movie.


Jack: They’re just vibing up there. They got a cook, which is pretty cool. You know, there’s like…


Janine: Of course.


Jack: They’re clearly– well, no, I didn't know whether or not it would be a sort of thing where they’d just be on rations, you know?


Janine: I mean, listen, I have a friend who…I might be mistaken, but I believe he was briefly a pastry chef on a submarine. [Jack laughs] So if they can do that in a submarine, Antarctica’s got a chef.


Sylvia: Okay…


Jack: World's deepest pastry chef? 


Janine: [laughs] Maybe it was just on a boat, but like, either way.


Jack: They rollerblade around, or at least one of them rollerblades around at the beginning of The Thing. Remember, he’s on rollerskates or something.


Austin: You gotta do something. What else are you doing, you know? 


Jack: Yeah. Tip whiskey into a chess computer.


Austin: That's what you do. 


Ali: I'm going. [Jack laughs quietly]


Austin: I'll see you there. Let's go hang.


Ali: Yeah, let's go. 


Austin: All right, speaking of going.


Sylvia: Couldn’t be me. [Ali laughs] Could never be me.


Ali: There's a sauna. 


Austin: There’s a sauna.


Ali: And you just hang out.


Sylvia: That’s fine.


Jack: It’s also a sauna…


Janine: It’s a Norwegian station. It's the Nor…Nords? 


Austin: Right, we're gonna go there. That's where we're going.


Ali: I’m just saying it’ll be relaxing. You just hang out. 


Janine: Yeah.


Ali: There's nothing…you know, you’ll be out there. 


Austin: No one can tell you to do anything. You're down in Antartica. You know what I mean? 


Ali: Yeah.


Austin: “Oh, I'm sorry, everybody. I'm working on UV lights today. I’m not going to be in the meeting.” [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: Nah, I…nah.


Janine: There's also a base, I want to say it's like one of the Aust– one of the? I don't know if there's one Australian base or multiple Australian bases. I know there's at least– there's one base, that I think is something to do with Australia, where basically the entire thing is inside a geodesic dome. 


Austin: Mm.


Janine: It's like a bunch of trailers inside of this geodesic dome, and I imagine that one’s quite pleasant.


Jack: Do you think that’s good for your aura? Yeah.


Janine: What? 


Jack: Is it good for your aura?


Austin: Being in a dome.


Janine: Uh huh.


Jack: Being in a geodesic dome. 


Austin: Being in the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station? Yeah, probably.


Jack: Is that what it’s called?


Austin: That seems to be the dome one.


Sylvia: The dome is one of the better shapes.


Austin: I agree. This dome is cool looking.


Jack: I like a dome. I like a tube.


Austin: Yeah, I've heard that about you. I've seen those Control streams. You guys love tubes over there. 


Jack: [laughs] That's true. 


Austin: Congrats, by the way, on finishing– for people who don't know, you and KB have been playing through Control over the last month as part of the Hallowstream.


Jack: Yeah. It's been a lot of fun, and we got we got some DLC to play that I'm stoked about. We're gonna get to see [Sylvia: “Ooh”] the excellent Matthew Porretta out of his role as Casper Darling and into his role as Alan Wake, a different kind of Stephen King weirdo.


Austin: That's very fun. Okay, Time.is. Let’s do a clap.


Ali: Oh, sure.


Austin: 30?


Sylvia: Mm-hmm.


Ali: Wait, I don't even have it up anymore.


Austin: Okay, not 30. Let’s go.


Ali: ‘Cause I was looking at that friggin’ research center! [laughs] 


Sylvia: Yeah.


Janine: Trolls got you. [Ali laughs]


Austin: 40. We’re gonna do 40 seconds.


Ali: Yes.


[brief pause] 


Jack: Fuck, I don't–! Oh, no, I’m fine. I’m fine. [quiet laughter, two distinct claps] 


Austin: Were you?


Ali: I didn’t clap!


Austin: You said, “fuck.” Okay. [Ali laughs]


Sylvia: No, I…Jack said, “fuck,” and I was like, it's not happening. 


Austin: All right, fif–


Ali: Top of the minute.


Austin: No, 55.


Ali: 55. [laughs] 


Austin: We can do 55.


Jack: I’m here. I'm ready. I'm ready. [quiet laughter, claps] 


Austin: Okay.


Jack: Ali said, “I didn't have it open, ‘cause I was looking at that research station,” and I thought to myself…here’s the order of thoughts in my head. [Ali laughs] 


Austin: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.


Jack: I thought, “That's funny. What a funny thing,” and then I thought, “I'm going to launch an investigation as to whether I have also closed the tab.”


Austin: Oh. [Ali laughs quietly]


Sylvia: Uh huh.


Jack: And then, through the process of that investigation, I found that I had closed the tab.


Austin: You closed the tab, yeah.


Jack: And then, in trying to open the tab, I heard y'all clap. [Ali laughs quietly]


Austin: Right. Mm-hmm.


Janine: And Brandon in the chat says, “The link to the game on the Patreon is broken, by the way.”


Austin: Oh.


Janine: There's a %20 in the hyperlink.


Austin: I will fix that before we actually start. That's easy to fix. 


Janine: Yeah.


Austin: Thank you. Thank you very much. Hit the button there. Where’s– oh, I see. There's a– uh huh, okay. It's actually the HTTP is doubled in the actual link. Okay, do that.


Janine: Oh.


Jack: Oh, that’s extra website.


Austin: Then hit save. And then there’s a space, and the space produces the percentage, the 20%.


Janine: Yeah.


Austin: All right. Now it should be fixed. Thank you so much. And it should be fine in the YouTube description. Okay. Ready? Everybody ready to do a podcast?


Sylvia: Uh huh.


[PALISADE end music]