Drawing Maps Audio 08: Season 6 Faction Creation Pt. 7 - Time and Space


Transcribed by Ril (@kaorukeihi)


AUSTIN: Hello, everybody! Welcome to the final pre-PARTIZAN episode of Drawing Maps. I’ve got a lot to go over today, and as this is a very exciting update that will, I hope, fill in some final worldbuilding details about the setting of PARTIZAN. Because of how dense this episode is, and because it combines kind of two types of update material, I am gonna double marking this episode as both a Mapmaker and a Drawing Maps post. I don’t do that often, but I think that as this episode continues, you’ll see why I’m doing it this way as you kind of scroll through the post. There’s a lot here. 


Like I said last update: This week’s post is going to be about the larger world of PARTIZAN and the Divine Principality. The calendar, its history, the way the Stels think about Partizan itself, and kind of why Partizan is so important, and also the way that they relate to one another in other places across Divinity. That’s a lot I know, and that’s why I’ve done my best to totally script this episode out. 


If you’re listening to this basically the whole text except for the words I’m saying right now are in the post. There may be some things I end up saying ‘cause I remember them as I’m speaking and I want to do a quick aside that will show up—[Austin coughs] Excuse me—in this audio. So I have a big cup of water and some tea because I’m right on the verge of getting sick but I want to get this out before that happens. [Austin laughs a bit.] So. So yeah, there might be some things in this episode that I say out loud that’s not in this script or vice versa. But the whole script that I’ve written will be in the post along with images, and a timeline, and some other stuff. So. Um. Let me think if there’s anything I have to say ahead of this. I don’t think so. I’m gonna take a sip of this water. 
[00:01:47 - The Divine Calendar] 


Alright, let’s start with something I’ve been dying to talk about which is the Divine Calendar.


As you’ve probably guessed from the recent intros of the Road to PARTIZAN, when we begin the season, it will be the year 1423 of the Divine Principality’s Perfect Millennium. But what does that mean? Why is it the Perfect Millennium? How long is a year in space anyway?


Let me break that down because it is- It is a ridiculous thing that the Divine Principality has done. We’ve talked a lot about them as trying to manage and eventually obliterate time and space. Management is the first step towards obliteration. [Austin laughs a bit.] And so, what they’ve done is a really… a really weird thing with the way they manage their calendars. I’m gonna take it slow, and I’m gonna start with what I hope is a clear example.


Wherever you live in the Divine Principality, whether that’s on the six-fold province of Partizan, whether that’s at the front lines of the Unbroken War against the Branched, or on the Apostolosian capital city of Aretemisios, the year 1423 will have 10 months, each of which will have 50, 25 hour days. 10-months years, 50 days each, and each day is 25 hours. That is a fact with a lot of implications. And there are more to come, so get ready. Here are a few.


One. As a listener, that means that a “year” in the Perfect Millennium is meaningfully longer for the character than for us, it’s longer than what we think of as a year. Years are long, and living on an inhabited, hospitable world means that you’ll often go through an entire set of seasons (if you’re on a planet with seasons) more than once per year. This is disorienting! For the people on the planet it is disorienting. Because of that, the people who live on planets rely on almanacs (like the official and true one provided by the Palace information service) in order to convert the Principal Calendar into actually usable information. I forgot that I’m calling it the Principal Calendar, I like that better than the Divine Calendar, that’s why I’m gonna change it up here… Or do I like Principal..? Hm. I’ll think about it. Whatever it says in the text will be the final thing. But you can hear me right now, this is the creative process. I do like the Principal Calendar, but I also… You’ll see why I said “Principal” in a second. 


What you will never forget regardless of where you are across space is what month it is. Because if you’re on a terrestrial world, or a major space station, or even kind of a colonized asteroid field, any other population center of note, the current month is broadcast to you not only via news updates and traditional calendars, but also by way of the Principle Constellations, which is the set of ten faux-constellations that dominate the sky everywhere. Whatever given month it is, that constellation will be large and central to the sky—you will see it move into place as part of like the- the- Every month of the year, a new constellation, whatever new constellation it is, will move to become a centerpiece of the night sky, or the sky at all. 


So, given that, it is finally time to explain what the months are of this ten-months year. 


So, the first one is the Month of the Sphinx which is the month of Stel Kesh. 


Then there’s the Month of the Pedestal, which is the month of Aspirational Hierarchy aka “The Simple Constellation”


If you look at the update, all of these are here, you can see all of these constellations. 


Then there’s the Month of the Phoenix which is the month of Stel Nideo.


And then there’s the Month of the Crook, like a shepherd’s crook. It’s the month of the Shepherd’s Crook, and the Shepherd’s Crook is a— we’ll get into this more in the future, but it is a group inside of Received Asterism, the kind of core original church that the Lambic House from a past update is tied to. The Shepherd’s Crook is like a— [Austin sighs] They used to be kind of priests on the outskirts of the frontier, and were kind of organized in a pseudo-militaristic— sometimes they look like Trappists, the kind of monks who brew beer like they do it in the Lambic House, sometimes they look like Sōhei which is a type of historic warrior monk inside of feudal Japan, sometimes they look like the kind of religious knight orders of the kind of Middle Ages in Europe—religious figures who also have military power is not a single thing from any one civilization, it’s a pretty broad archetype, and the Shepherd’s Crook was that at least. Now they’re something different, you’ll find out more later. 


Month of the Dragon for the month of Stel Orion. 


Month of the Ox which is the month that venerates those who work for the Principality.


Month of the Chimera which is the month of Stel Columnar.


Month of the Book which is the month of the Bipartite Faith. Both Progressive and Received Asterism are recognized across the Principality, the Month of the Book celebrates that. 


There’s the Month of the Serpent which is the month of Stel Apostolos. It’s kind of a sea serpent more than just a snake. 


Then and finally is the Month of the Partizan which is the Month Commemorating the Unbroken War with the Branched. It’s like the Month of the Spear, basically. 


Why ten months? Well, because each Stel gets two, more or less. One for the Stel itself which features the mythological creature that symbolizes that Stel, and one for some extra thing important to the faction in question. 


And I know what you’re thinking. Stels Orion, Columnar, and Apostolos all joined well after the Principality was formed? Which is true. And for a while, I thought that meant that the calendar was just divided up every time a new stel joined. Like, it way always a 500-day year, and then like when Stel Orion joined they cut it, you know, some months short and added or gave Stel Orion some extra or whatever. 


And that’d be a reasonable way to do things. But the Divine Principality is not reasonable. Instead, the Principality added months and days to the calendar every time a new stel joined. Which means that during the Dawn, Ascendant, and Miraculous Millennia—all of which were before Stel Orion joined the Principality—a year was only 200 days. Which, again, has a lot of implications!


First, it means that the Divine Calendar (or the Principal Calendar) is inconsistent as fuck. When you say that a particular minor war lasted for a year, like. Let’s say there was a war between two minor houses and Stel Kesh, like between each over inheritance rights or something, and you go “Oh yeah, that was in the year like 523 of the Ascendant Millennia- or Millennium.” Okay, well, 523 Ascendant Millennium, that means it must have only been— if it had lasted a year then it had lasted 200 days. While if you said it lasted- If it was the Perfect Millenium, that would mean that it lasted 1000- or 500 days. Kind of a big difference there, right? 


If you—let me look at my notes, one second, If you- … So. Not only “knowing” what that means, but “understanding” it, like, intuitively is a key part of scholarship in the Principality. You have to learn their stupid calendar system or else you’re the one who sounds like a fool. So if you’re like, you know, if you’re comparing two different wars, if you’re talking about the speed with which some faction developed some technology in contrast to another, and, you know, all sorts of that sort of like measuring between different stels and different subfactions and stuff is definitely the sort of, you know, chest-beating that happens in the Divine Principality. You need to know that stuff so that it sounds like you know what you’re talking about. 


Another big implication here is that Ages are weird! As players, as just like people playing this game recording into a microphone, we’re just going to use earth years to describe people—if someone says that their character is 40, we mean Earth 40, and we will pretend that there is a translation happening in world. 


And as a side bit of worldbuilding, because I think this is worth doing, the age of majority in the Divine Principality is “7000 Days,” because they had to figure that shit out at some point, when Stel Orion probably first joined, I bet. Like, suddenly they change the calendar, and it’s like “Okay, well, wait. We used to say”—Let me just do some quick maths—“16th… We used to say…” I guess, wait, this is 200-day years, right? So let’s say 18 was still the age of majority at that point. That would mean— The age of majority would not have been 18 then, right? Because… Let me see, 365x18, that’s 6570 days. Which means that before Stel Orion joined you had to be 32 by old calendar days before you were what we would think of as 18. Whereas now in the Divine Principality, now that there are 500-day years, that would mean that you become of age at like 13,14. And I’m not gonna run a game where we say that out loud! “Where the age of majority is 13!” And so what we saying is—and this is not gonna come up in play at all, but you have your 7k Day. Your 7000th day in the galaxy is what you become- you become- you stop being a minor, you become of majority age. And I think that’s like… There’s a party if you’re fancy. If you have money you have your 7k party, you have like your big day. That is like when you’re allowed to inherit from your corrupt rich parents whatever they’ve stolen from the people. It’s great. If you’re broke like the majority of people I bet there’s still some kind of celebration for your majority day. But like, you know. That’s some worldbuilding for you. 


I’ve also started to gesture at something else here which is The Millennia. The game takes place in 1423 of the Perfect Millennium. How many other millennia are there? If the Perfect Millennium is currently 1423 years long, how long are the others? There are fair questions. So, let me just bring up for you the map of Microscope—excuse me—the map of Microscope as we finished it at the end of Microscope + a little bit of extra stuff that if you’re listening to this, if you have access to, then you can go back and listen to the post-Microscope game, or not game, but a recording that Jack, Dre, and I did, this has that extra stuff in it. If you haven’t listen to that yet, one, I’d say you can go do that! That’s on this feed, if you’re listening to this you can go listen to that, and you’re ready to now, because you’ve listened to all of the games of the Road to Season 6 that are out now. If you didn’t and you’re not gonna today, it’ll be in the main feed this Thursday, and you’ll be able to see some extra stuff here. But if you take a look at that map, one thing that is- that I’m gonna do is that I’m gonna- To the version I’m gonna put on here, I will the names of the Millennia up top for the kind of ease of just like “Oh, here is when the different kind of days- or not days, different Millennia started.” 


Because it turns out, that each of the Millennia, each of the major- the major Millennia more or less map to the major  “eras” of the past- of the Divine Principality’s kind of Microscope history. 


So, for instance, the Birth of the Divine Principality becomes the Dawn Millennium, starting from the moment that Aram Nideo became the “Resolute Regent” of the new empire and recognized the Divinity of the machine that would go on to become the Divine Past. 


At this point, I don’t even think the Principality used this calendar. Like, even through the second Microscope era, which is the Age of Local Expansion I think the Principality still used a mix of calendars and systems, that’s not quite unified into the empire that it would be later.


It was towards the start of the Time of Fables, which is the kind of the third column of the Microscope game, where in the People’s Palace on Kesh (which is- was the heart of the- The throne of the Divine Principality) under the leader who would eventually become the Miraculous Princept, the Divine Calendar was put into place, suddenly dividing the past 400,000 days into even two millennia. So it’s like “Hey, 400,000 days ago is when- is when Nideo became the Resolute Regent, so we’re gonna say that that was two millennia, 2,000 years.” Each of those millennia was one thousand years, each of those years comprised of 4 50-day months. It’s probably like four seasons, right? Is kind of probably how the Miraculous Princept imagined this: a year is 50-50-50-50, it’s four months in a row, it’s almost like four seasons even though there’s no seasons in space. Or you know, there are, but they’re different everywhere, presumably. 


This happened soon after the adoption of the Many Stars Thesis and the kind of true creation of the Divine Principality as it currently stands, where Nideo’s Argument isn’t just an underlying ideology, but is state dogma. 
[00:15:00]


I would bet that the leadership at this time thought that they’d settled this. But, as is the case, nothing is ever truly settled. I’m gonna take another sip of water. 


So, nearly a 1000 years after that (200,000 days after that), after the Principality had begun to recover from the first Perennial Wave—I say the first, like, from the start of the Perennial Wave happening—during the latter days of the Divine Clash, the yet untitled Living Princept—the Princepts are called the Living Princept when they’re alive and in general they adopt a posthumous like superlative that becomes their title forever. So, again, the Miraculous Princept was named that after they died, presumably. So, let me start this bit over again. 


Nearly 1000 years later, after the Principality had begun to recover from the Perennial Wave, during the latter days of the Divine Clash, the yet untitled Living Princept recognized that the calendar had offered him an opportunity to leave his mark on the Principality. Once the Orion Combine was annexed and the Divine Collaborate was defeated or assimilated, he would declare himself the Victorious Princept and then give this new Millennium his name— This is one of the ways in which you can title yourself is by doing something truly incredible. No one will stop someone who has won a war against a rival from naming themselves, right? So he was like “I’m going to declare myself the Victorious Princept.” 


In the end, the Divine Clash did not see the Collaborate come under the- come into fold, but all the same, it was a victory and so, as precedent demanded, he declared the start of a new millennium from the People’s Throne on Kesh. And maybe it was sort of in spite to the Collaborate that he gave Orion at this point two months on the calendar (It’s worth noting that I suspect the specifics of what those months represented takes some time to decide, but it’s like Orion Month 1, Orion Month 2). This yet again forever changed the way time would be counted in the Divine Principality, and it set precedent in place for future Princepts to do the same as they brought additional Stels into being.


Which is why, once the Columnar was successfully courted at the turn of the next 1000 years (which now is to say 300,000 days later), the Living Princept of that era declared the it was the coming of the age of the Perfect Millennium. Four stels doubled the number of the Principality’s first duo, and for this Princept, it was hard to see what, if anything, could be missing. Columnar had joined without (the records say) a single shot being fired on either side. There hadn’t been a proper war since the Divine Clash, which at this point was over 1000 years ago. And sure, there were still small, internal conflicts and skirmishes, but, you know, the whole point of the Many Stars Argument was for there- was to allow internal battles, was for there to be fight over inheritance and territory, and debates and a kind of… that style of small-scale conflict. For this Princept it seemed (and I think for people at that time it seemed) like the Principality had reached its final, unified form. Now with four different stels,it was- it just- all it had to do was reach out its arms, one Stel across each of the quadrants of the galaxy. But again: Nothing is ever settled.


Three big things follow after the declaration of the Perfect Millennium: First, the Schism and Reformation of Asterism, during which the Prophet Logos miraculously transforms most of the barren moon of Partizan into a blissful, bountiful world, an act that would eventually lead to the creation of the bipartite system of faith, with both Received and Progressive Asterism serving as state religions. At some point, this system, the bipartite faith systems becomes the second “Columnar” month. What happened to the month before that? Because remember, there was a gap between the beginning of the Perfect Millennium and the bipartite faith starting, in between the birth of- or the kind of integration of Columnar and the Prophet Logos. Was there another months there? Was there another constellation? This is a big “Draw maps, leave blank spaces” that’s so good. The idea of like “Oh yeah, there was another different Columnar month that was replaced”, and that you don’t— you cannot know what it was, because all access to information you have comes through the Palace, which is, you know, heavily, heavily, heavily censored. 


The second big thing that happens in the Perfect MIllennium is the war against the Branched and Apostolos, aka the Unbroken War. Unbroken because it’s the Golden Branch, also Unbroken because that war starts at 500— around 500 Perfect MIllennium, it is now 1423, that war has been going for quite some time. That would be, that 500 PM like would be the halfway point of the Perfect Millennium under normal circumstances. But then circumstances changed.


First, the Branched take firm control of Kesh. And I say firm, because over the course of the Unbroken War, Kesh would be controlled in part or in whole by all three of the warring factions. Eventually, though, the Branched took Kesh and enough surrounding territory as to begin to integrate it directly into its polity, into the kind of body of the Branched. And I’m just not gonna get into how they took it, or…  Is that a voluntary thing? Is that ca- is that, you know, the Branched needing to become, you know, violent occupiers in their effort to try and to push the Divine Principality out? Is that a voluntary thing that the people on Kesh did? Like, I don’t know. If the camera ever goes there, which it probably won’t this season… But if it ever did, it would only then open for us to play through. Or for me to have such a good idea that I love that I commit to it. But I’m not there yet, so. Why bother? 


The precedent for declaring a new Millenium did not account for the People’s Palace and the People’s Throne not to be in control. The Princept must declare their new Millennium from the People’s Throne in the People’s Palace. Princept after Princept tried to retake Kesh, and Princept after Princept failed. Like, that precedent isn’t just about like— To kind of explain this, why would this matter: one, it’s great PR to be like “We have to get it back!” But, two, you look weak if you say “Oh, I’m going to make the most important type of royal doctrine but not from the People’s Throne” is to be the the Princept who gave up. For all history you are the one who said “Yeah, we could try to get Kesh back, but… You know what, this spaceship is probably good enough for me to change time forever.” And so, that didn’t happen. You know. 


The goal of retaking Kesh was even the reason for the third “big thing” in the Perfect Millennium which was the ploy to assimilate Apostolos into the Stel—which we described in the For the Queen and then the Microscope games. But to assimilate Apostolos without giving them proof that they were real citizens of Divinity would be (even with the ploy) asking  for rebellion, especially if the ploy was ever revealed. And so while the Princept could not make it a new year, could not make it a new Millenium, rather, what they could do was declare that from—And they made that declaration from the Apokine’s Dais—Day-as? Die-as? Day-as? I’m pretty sure Dais is right. Yeah, a dais.—from Apostolos, that- that Apostolosians would get their two months, a 100 more days. And this is a point at which Apostolos was a frontline world, right? This could be an opportunity for the Branched to assassinate the Apokine and also the Princept of this era. 


Sp, the calendar took two more months, Apostolos got its two months, and at that point, half- not halfway through, sorry—most of the way through, the Divine- sorry, the Perfect Millenium, two more months got added to the calendar. That’s the year 980. And there’s a whole calendar that I’ve put into the post.  


From that point forward, the Perfect Millennium became a calendar of 10 50-day months. Here’s a loose timeline of everything said above with a bit more detail and dates. I’m not gonna read this because it is huge. But here it is, it’s posted, you should go look at it, there’s some fun stuff in there. 


Alright, so. That’s the state of the calendar. The Obliteration of Time. We can now talk about to Obliteration of Space, or at least the first steps of the colonization and management. Let me first and foremost introduce you to something I’m very excited about…
[00:24:09 - Galactic Map]


The State of All Divinity and the Blessed Moon of Partizan c. 1423 of Our Perfect Millennium. 


Now, if you are listening to this on the- in you earphones, if you’re listening to this in your browser window, but you’re not looking, at anything, I need you to go to the website, or presumably I hope scroll down in your podcast player to see this incredible map that I fucking love by Annie Johnston-Glick who you can follow on Twitter @dancynrew, who I commissioned to turn my chicken scratch map into this beautiful illuminated map of the Divine Principality and the key areas that its connected to. I will also include at this point the draft map that I sent her for comparison. We talked through this map over a period of days, and she did an incredible job of kind of like… not just illustrating it, but also kind of illuminating it, in- almost in like the illuminated manuscript sense. This- We are really drawing on a particular history of maps here. 


I spent a lot of time looking at, uh, sci-fi maps, and maps like… galaxy maps, and I don’t like any of them. I especially don’t like any of them for this. You know, there’s a way in which it’s already kind of foolish to try to map the galaxy, because a galaxy is a 3D space— Or it’s not foolish, but you have to accept that all maps— You have to start from the position of like, no map is representative, or rather, representation is never accurate. Representation is always representation, this is not a pipe, etc. And so, and so you have to make choices, and you have to decide what your priorities for representation are. And I’ve kind of hand waived a lot of that to some degree. In fact, let me just pause on this, I’m gonna get back to this, let me just address something that I want to say here. 


I do wanna day two quick things about this version of the map before I get into the like implications of the map. 1. I’ve rotated it from what you’ve seen before, we kind of- We decided to rotate it because then we could do this thing where the center of the galaxy looks like an eyeball, and we get to write on the sides “Beware the Eye of Perennial, Adversary Unblinking”. Which is dope, which is the kind of like “Here Be Dragons” of this world, which… You should go read about “Here Be Dragons” and how that’s not really a thing, actually. Like, to some degree, but not the way people think it was all over the place. Anyway. 2. I’ve swapped the places of the Stel Kesh and Stel Nideo. Originally Kesh was on the other side of the galactic center than it is now, like, in maps I’ve shown during live streams and stuff, but because of where I knew the Twilight Mirage was, it only made sense for Nideo to have grown out around it and kind of contain it in its interior. As a reminder, we’re not gonna go to the Twilight Mirage this season, we’re not gonna touch it, but that is where it is. Um. 


So, what all can we learn from the map? Here’s a few things that come to mind—after I take another sip of this water. And of this tea. [Austin sighs.] Alright.


The only place in the entire galaxy, the only place where all five Stels meet is Partizan. That is it. There is nowhere else that all five Stels actually touch directly. That is, actually, it’s the Prophet’s Sea, which is the name of the entire star sector where they meet. But the only place that are kind of populated, like, in- everyone- everybody has a full institution of government, civil, you know, services, societal services, a military etc. is Partizan. That is like the only place that has a high population center for each of the five Stels. The other place that it comes close are the Golden Branch, which is kind of- on this map kind of north-west by Kesh, and Columnar, and kind of south-south-east by Nideo, and Apostolos. But while everyone there borders the Golden Branch, Apostolos only borders Nideo and Columnar only borders Kesh. And then Kesh and Nideo border each other, and then Apostolos and Columnar are on their other sides. And so like, even there it’s not all five- all four hitting each other. It’s also worth saying that in general, everything around the Golden Branch is… In general, everything is extremely general, right? 


Like, like… There is- When you’re deep in say, Orion, or Apostolosian territory you can be like “Yeah, sure. They own everything in 3D space. They have colonized this to the best of their abilities. Maybe there’s a little more to go, maybe there’s a little less, who knows, right?” But you don’t have to- what you don’t have to worry about is rendering 3D space. Near Counterweight, near the Golden Branch you have to imagine that place is just fucking mess. The 2D nature of this map falls apart entirely, there are, you know… In the kind of red of Nideo space you have to imagine underneath certain planets… You know, if you think about the galaxy as a disk that you are looking at sideways, you know, at it as if you’re holding up a frisbee in your hand, looking at it like on the edge instead of on the flat at the top… You have to imagine there are stars and planets, and, you know, everything else all mixed up in terms of who owns what, and in fact obviously on the front line there’s planets that have multiple different powers on them. So just, imagine it falls apart there, but that’s not how you draw a map of an empire you love which- who- you know, the fictional author of this map, or artist of this map, the fictional cartographer is definitely doing something in- you know, as a picture of love for their empire, absolutely. 
[00:30:05]


Implicit in that last little bit about the 2D nature and about kind of how much control is in control, and also certainly implicit in the where is- you know, where are the places where everything touches, is the fact that Orion (which is huge in terms of raw “spatial” control, I think it’s probably as big as the old OriCon and Automated Diaspora map control areas put together)... It is the only Stel not sharing a border with the Golden Branch, not in the front lines. In fact, it only directly borders Columnar space and the Prophet’s Sea, and Partizan. And that is, uh, I think indicative of their growth, right? Like, they have internal conflicts just like everybody else, but they don’t necessarily have the same border tension with other Stels. It’s one of the reasons why we’ve talked about Orion as being- having more internal conflict but generally staying neutral across other sorts of conflicts. They remained neutral during this current civil war. And they also are the kind of… One of the reasons that they are the economic powerhouse that they are is that they can- They’re like the RTS or like, tactics or a 4X game powerhouse, that is… You know what they’re like? They’re like, you know how, if you’ve ever played Risk, when you get Australia, and you’re like “Well, I’m fucking set.” Because like, Australia doesn’t give me a huge bonus necessarily, but it’s land- or it’s not landlocked, but there’s really only one way in to hurt it, it’s like I can’t get surrounded, this is a very safe territory. Or it’s like playing a game of like Civilization or Stellaris and starting at the edge of a map, and you’re like “Yes! I don’t have to worry at all about being hit from these directions.” That’s Stel Orion. In fact, the only people who have like even a “loose” border besides Columnar is Apostolos, ‘cause Apostolos can- can send ships through dark space, you might remember that being one piece of their ancient technology and that still works despite the fact that it is… What’s the word that I’m looking for? Despite the Perennial Wave they can still do that. It’s slower than using the system of- uh, the system of- The Portcullis System, it’s still slower than that, but they could theoretically do it. Except they’d have to cross the Scutum-Centaurus arm to do it, which is forbidden.


The Scutum-Centaurus arm—and this is another- another note, note 3—Annie and I talked about what to label that. Did we want to emphasize that it was forbidden territory? As a reminder, one of the Princepts, the Tranquil Princept who was in charge around the time that Progressive Asterism was approved, or was kind of brought into the fold, said no, no one could go past the gate of Partizan, no one can go, you know, further in beyond that, to whatever is beyond that gate. How did we want to label that? Did we wanna label that as something which was just forbidden, no one go here? Or did I want to emphasize that like this was being held up as bountiful, as like a prize by this shitty colonialist empire? ‘Cause again, as a reminder, the Audacious Princept said, whoever wins- whoever recovers Stel Kesh gets the right to be the first Stel to begin settling this Scutum-Centaurus arm. 


And what I ended up settling on was—I’m guessing the pronunciation on this—is Caelestia—but it might be {Ki-lestia}, let me look it up… How to pronounce this? Ki... Could be either way. Depends on if I’m going for classical or- or not reading. I will say… Apparently it could be {Che-lestia}, which is kind of good, but let’s go with {Ke-lestia} Nullius, which is a modified version of Terra Nullius, which is a latin phrase which means Nobody’s Land. It’s descended from another latin phrase which is Res Nullius which means Nobody’s Thing. And in ancient Roman culture things that were nobody’s things were like… if you found a fort and there was nobody in it, that’s your fort. Or, if you found a slave that didn’t have a master, that’s your slave. And likewise, Terra Nullius is kind of a law, a kind of a norm, let’s say, that served as kind of the bullshit justification for a lot of historical colonization. Lots of settlers going like “Ah, no one lives here, so this is nobody’s land, which means that I can seize it as my own. No one’s worked this land yet, and that means it’s okay for me to take it.” And of course they are surrounded at all times by indigenous people as this happens, not just in North and South America, but across- and not just in Australia, but even across, you know, Europe, Asia, Africa… Like, everywhere, this is a thing that many powers, and especially european powers, used to justify their expansion. There are of course people living in the Scutum-Centaurus arm, like, even the idea that “winning the right” to colonize those people and extracting the resources from that arm is a broken and immoral process, and one with human historical precedent. And that is what I wanted to emphasize with the name. Like, that is- that is… I wanted to use a name that suggested— Or on this map I wanted to emphasize that this is the way that we as players are thinking about that as like… These are not new problems. I’ve said this before but like if there’s a theme for this season it is like: Do we only know the shape of empire? You know, how long can we change from, or can we actually escape at all? And so, emphasizing that this is an old problem is an important thing. 


Number 4. There are a lot of location names here, some of them are old, some of them are new. You know Counterweight, you know the Twilight Mirage, you know the Sun, Sol… That is where it is now basically on this map. Um… There’s some other ones that you probably don’t know, but are actually old: Lenaphon IV came up briefly in Twilight Mirage, in the short story Guaranteed Events. The Crown or Crown City was the name of the pre-Perennial Wave capital, which came up in the game of Microscope, there’s a character named 1234 Treefall who was there. The ruins are still there, and I suspect that they’ve probably rebuilt around them, and the Crown, the planet The Crown is probably a big tourist destination, it’s probably like the Rome of Columnar space. Um. The 10th Coronet, which is deep in Orion space, I’ve never used the word 10th Coronet, but I have said the Nine Coronet, and that is where the council that leads Stel Orion—which is called the Nine Coronet—meet up. I brought up the Nine Coronet very very very briefly in intro for Road to PARTIZAN. Again, this is flavor, this stuff doesn’t super matter, like there’s not gonna be a test about who the Nine Coronet are. If a character shows up who is important enough to be like one of the Nine Coronet. Then I’ll be like “Oh! Yo, they’re one of the Coronet, that means that they’re important!” And that’s it, that’s all you need to know, there’s no deep, dark or like interesting history there. Or there is… We can build around it. There’s scaffolding. A lot of this is  scaffolding. Finally—I mentioned this already once very quickly without any note—there’s Artemisios, which is a world named for one of the great historical leaders of Apostolos, and because Apostolos eventually gets lost in the Unbroken War, Artemisios has become one of the largest population center and kind of the ad hoc capital for Stel Apostolos at this point.


Something this map doesn’t show, and that I’d love to get into in more detail at some point in the future, is the way in which these borders are porous, at least to some degree. You know, Partizan is the only major world in the galaxy where all five stels currently have large scale settlements, militaries, all that; it’s not rare at all to find key institutions from one Stel showing up deep into the territory of another Stel. The Church of Received Asterism, major Orion companies, Kesh-funded academic institutions, Columnar Research & Development labs, Apostolosian military outposts—these often will pop up across “rival” territories. Like, you know, the thing to remind- to remember is like: while small skirmishes and even fights over land, and inheritance, and titles have happened throughout history, the Principality has been standing for 5000 years. Which- That’s… a messy number now, because of how they’ve broken up years. But 5000 years which… Even the youngest Stel, Apostolos, joined 443 years ago—it might have been more, but I think it’s 463 years ago based on the calendar that I put up above, let me change it right now. There we go.—And that is over 600 years ago in our own calendar. The body of the Divine Principality has not broken, at least not yet. Even during open hostilities, there are rules about access to state infrastructure like the Portcullis system, or the Palace, and things like space launch systems, like getting people off of the planet, right? Maybe that will change with time, but like, even now at the beginning of this game at Partizan, you know, every Stel uses the Apostolosian Loop, the Barranca Loop, which is this kind of launch loop in the Apostolosian controlled desert to get stuff off the planet. You know, there might need to be deals cut to make it happen, for people, you know, from Kesh, but it’s… 


The presumption is this will end, and- and eventually, however hostile we are today, we are still fundamentally all part of Divinity. There are rules in place to maintain Divinity and to prevent permanent- the permanent collapse of the state. And one of them is that with rare exception access to those key things for state figures and people working for the state remain available. Obviously that means that like… There’s definitely ulterior motives here which is like you never want there to be a moment where the masses start to build their own newspapers. Or their own libraries. Or their own transport systems. You never want to cut them off in that way from… You know, it’s not even- it’s not like a welfare system because people are not necessarily being taken care particularly well. And again, if I find time, I would love to get into like how I imagine people living under Stel Kesh, which has a very kind of, um… People living under Stel Kesh vs people living under Stel Orion, what is the distinction there, where would I be pulling from in terms of inspiration for like what their lives were like. Because I think the average citizen of Stel Orion is living a much different life than an average citizen of Stel Kesh who is living a much different life than an average citizen of Stel Apostolos in terms of what they’re doing day to day. The same model of economy are- they’re just not the same, until you get to a certain level of income and privilege, and at that point it’s about mobility, and choosing which of those models you might like, or what you’ve inherited, etc. But again, that’s a much much much bigger update, and this thing is already like 4500 words, or 5000 words, or something. So. Let me continue. 
[00:41:50 - Ground rules/inspirations] 


I say all this because I’ve heard—I bring up all of this stuff, and I actually wish I could talk more because I’ve already heard a lot of talk from people who want to run a “home” game somewhere else in the Principality, and I’ve had people asking me questions about whether X or Y is more likely. And I do wish I had the time to go even deeper into this stuff, but given how long this already is, here are some quick ground rules/inspirations, this is all I can really offer without this becoming something that will hurt my throat because I’m talking so much.


1. You can and will find the kind of major churches (Received and Progressive Asterism) everywhere. The former, Received Asterism, is a centralized- is a major, centralized structure with a clear hierarchy and reporting structure. You can go back and look at the Nideo update for kind of those titles. They’re led by a Cycle, there’s, you know, kind of… it’s very Catholic in inspiration, because it is a key religious structure that I understand, and also a key religious structure that was important for something like the Holy Roman Empire, one of the key touchstones for this season. The Progressive Asterism, on the other hand, is more of a continuity of faith, there are lots of individual churches dedicated to individual Divines as if they were saints, or spirits, or gods—in this way this is not just like Protestantism, this is not like Catholicism vs Protestant Christianity. There’s even- There’s a lot of breadth inside of Progressive Asterism. Um. And there are also… You know, one church could be worshipping the god- or the Divine Courage as if the Divine Courage was a completely standalone, you know, divine that was worth some special amount of- of praise. Another might think Courage is God’s Courage, you know, almost monotheistically. There’s a lot of variety among Progressive Asterist belief. And all that said: You could still reverse these two ideas, the centralism of Received Asterims, and the kind of- the independence of the different Progressive Asterist churches. Um, you could tell a story about like a Received Asterist church that is so far away from the Cycle, who is kind of the leader of the church, that they do things differently, maybe they’re extra corrupt or even heretical in comparison. Or, you could tell a story about a more tightly organized set of Progressive Asterist churches. You could imagine, like, a cult that has built a belief around a set of Divines, as if they’re more important than the others! There’s like all sorts of cool stories to do there. 


And if you extend this style of thinking—that you focus on how social relationships reflect- So, social relationships, you focus on how factions and organizations are organized, you focus on how they act, what their needs are, etc. If you focus on how those things reflect or are derived from both material circumstances (things like distance and resourcing. Is the reason that the Received Asterist church deep in, you know, Stel Orion territory, the reason that it becomes corrupt and starts preaching, you know, some different variation of the Gospel, or whatever we called the Gospel equivalent… 
[00:45:05]


Is that because they’re so far away from Nideo territory that they become more easily corruptible? Is that because they don’t have access to the same resources that are being sent to the frontline churches? etc.) And you also pay attention to the point at which ideology becomes practice (which is about likt specifically how do subcultures organize themselves? When there’s a church meeting, who gets to speak? Is there a single preacher? Is there a kind of pass the conch shell style of thing? Do people sing in the churches? Is there… Are there holidays? Etc. How does ideology find its way into practice? And then how do those two things, material circumstances, ideological practice kind of shape the social? And vice versa to some degree), then you’ll be able to plop a game down anywhere in Divinity. You know, like… What does a corporation- what does an Orion corporation look like deep in the heart of Stel Kesh, which is so historical, so caught up in tradition? You know, these are people… Sometimes people who are working for Stel Kesh— or, sorry, for Stel Orion, are people who were born to indentured servants, and who have “worked their way up” to being just regular citizens and employees. And- and, for someone in Stel Kesh, from a high house, are they’re gonna look down their nose at this person who has like “come from nothing”, right? Think about how those organizations end up moving in places. Think about how… You know, you can reverse that easily, right? What does the Stel Kesh academic who is- who is interested in understanding the history of the galaxy in a sort of indifferent way, in the sort of way that is not necessarily about the praising of the Divine Principality above everything, a sort of thought that they could only have because they’ve had the time to develop that style of historical thought, and access to- and active privilege to access to historical documents that maybe not everyone else in every other Stel is allowed to have access to. They have security clearance because they are a scholar and blah-blah-blah? What do they look like? And what sort of- What does the class that they hold look like in Columnar space? People who don’t even have this long super— again, they’ve been— at this point they’ve been in the Divine Principality for a long, long time, but they have this whole other history from before that, which… 


A thing- A brief thing that is not in these notes—here’s a sclusie for people listening—a fun thing to look at… And Keith and I just kind of figured this out the other night. Look at where Stel Columnar is. That used to be- That used to be OriCon space! If you go back to COUNTER/Weight era, that is the OriCon arm! The arm that the Golden Branch now has control of is the old Apostolosian arm. And you can see it kind of fades, ‘cause who the fuck knows how far their control goes. This is a projection from one cartographer in the Divine Principality, it’s probably a fucking guess! But Stel Columnar’s arm used to be Stel Orion’s arm. And one of the things that Keith and I realized was: what if- what if at some point- We’ve talked about this in the Ech0 to midnight game—“Ech0 to midnight”, Jesus Christ! I’m sorry to both- both game designers—in the Ech0 and also the Dusk to midnight game that… OriCon eventually breaks down to… into a bunch of kind of warring subfactions, and warlords and, you know, independent, almost libertarian, you know, states that have gone Golt. And it falls apart. And I kind of love the idea that that happens, and then, you know, sometime in the time around Twilight Mirage, or the beginning of Twilight Mirage era, you know, 30,000 years before PARTIZAN starts, and the people leave. They begin to leave, and they leave behind all of their machines. They leave behind all of their heavy machinery, they leave behind lots of algorithms that are just left running, and eventually people start appearing, right? Eventually you have like… You know, they leave behind their gym units, they leave behind their Benny BABSes, you know what I mean? And eventually… you know, I’m sure some of those people end up moving towards Counterweight, some of these things aren’t even people yet, some of these things are like… They are toasters that are like… not quite sapient, but maybe sentient? And eventually that sentience develops into something like… comparable to sapience, and eventually that becomes the Columnar. And we would- We never would have gotten there without drawing the map, and looking at the map and going “Oh wait! This is literally Orion territory! Maybe this is a history of people who were left behind, and who had to kind of figure out how to live, you know, in spite of that, like, build a new culture from that.” And that’s a very very very fun little nod. 


And with that let me add a little bit more here… But you know, I can add a little bit more here because it won’t spoil something specific but part of the whole vibe around Columnar that we’ve talked about once was like, there’s a bit of resentment that they had to… that they have to take humanoid form, or that they have to account for humanoids, rather. There was a point at which Columnar society is just a bunch of server banks. And 1, the Perennial Wave fucks with that, and then, 2, needing to interface with and let, you know, a diplomat from Stel Orion show up, or, you know, a military commander from Apostolos show up… means building buildings with, you know, humans in mind, and humanoid people in mind, and bodies in mind. And there is, there is a sort of not necessarily, you know, good-hearted resentment of that. And I think part of that comes from—and this was Keith’s suggestion—was that, you know, you get- They worked away from being connected to humans, historically, right? Like, there was a time in which they looked… they were made to look like humans, right? And, as Keith says in this messages that I’m reading, there’s a point at which “we made them look like us” stops being true. The robots don’t need to look like anybody anymore. The synthetics get to look like whatever the fuck they want to, because no one with legs lives here anymore, and were just data. Or we wanna be thread-based, or we wanna be, you know, we certainly don’t want to be bipedal! And that stops being true. And so. The only reason we get to that, that very interesting arc, is because of the map. So, again, this is one of the reasons I draw maps. “Leave blanks” doesn’t just mean “draw maps and don’t answer anything”, it means “Look at your map and be like ‘Oh! What answers does this map actually provide for us’”


Some more stuff there. 1- Or, 2! Inside of the Principality, at this point in history, it’s rare to find undeveloped land, uncolonized civilizations, untapped resources. There may be pockets here or there— you know, you look at the map and go “Oh, what’s up with this offshoot near Stel Orion?” There are a handful of places.—but it has been 5,000 years of genocide, through military action and forced assimilation. This is not… No one is free from this—Apostolos was even an empire before they joined Stel Ori- or they joined Stel Apostolos- before they joined the Divine Principality. This doesn’t mean you can’t tell a story about a civilization under threat—you know, we’ll even probably touch on that here and there, we already have, obviously, in terms of the game of Dialect, in terms of some of the stuff that… the aftermath in Ech0. It’s just one of the core question of the theme- or, of the season, is that like inside of a world where everyone is compromised, where you come from a history of colonization, a history of empire… And then when you extend that out, and think about the long history not just of contemporary empire, but the history of violence and conquest that is at the heart of most nation states... You dig deep enough into just about any nation state, and you will find at some level someone conquering someone else, whether that is at the level of statehood, the level of the kind of local culture—conquest has been a thing we’ve had in culture for as long as culture has been culture. And so, how do you confront that? How do we address that we’ve been haunted by that? So, again, big theme. No one’s hands are clean in the Divine Principality. Um. 


In terms of proximity and rivalry—if you’re like “Ooh, I wanna set up a game between this and this and this!” you can look at the map and kind of see what makes sense, but just to say it out loud—besides Partizan, there are some spaces where there is overlap. There’s Nideo and Kesh overlap close to the Prophet’s Sea star systems—or a star sector—and also close to the Golden Branch branch, obviously. There is Nideo and Apostolos borders, both again up near the Golden Branch, and also down near the Prophet’s Sea, there’s kind of a nice long stretch there. And then there is also Columnar and Orion, which is also good, because it’s the only major Orion border. It’s also the only major space where two- It’s not the only major… But Orion and Columnar are kind of economic rivals already, and so to have them- have them have that border- have those border worlds is really interesting. And then there’s also Columnar and Kesh up over towards Counterweight, near the Golden Branch. And then, obviously, everyone with the Golden Branch. Which leads me to point 4.


There are a lot of questions about the Branched, my hope is to bring them into gameplay at some place proper, as they show up twice on the faction sheet, tied to two different squads, so I get to show them. But barring that, the big things that I’ve written for myself as like notes to remember about them, and I’ll just share those here. 


1, they’re a posthuman culture such that in my depictions of them in the forms that they prefer to take, they’re not just striking but terrifying. I need to emphasize them as alien. The thing that I said to myself about them is like “I want to- I want to relate to and root for them in a moral and philosophical sense, but that aesthetically I should- I should have to work past my aesthetics, I should have to like get over the fact that they’re scary to root for, and yet root for them.” Part of this is actually just being true to COUNTER/Weight—they’re from COUNTER/Weight, and we had a rule which is “The only aliens should be true aliens.” That was Nick’s- Nick Scratch’s suggestion and a rule during our world 00 building thing. And to kind of honor that truth about the Golden Branch I want to keep that true. The closest thing I think we’ve ever had, visually, to them, is the Iconoclasts of Twilight Mirage. They are that weird, they are that different than us. We can think that they are cool, we can think that they are… neat, but we should describe them, and I should describe them in ways that, when we see them directly in person, should make someone gasp. And I don’t mean like - I don’t mean “these aren’t people who are normatively beautiful.” We have non-normative bodies all throughout the Stels, and they are dealt with, or kind of framed differently from Stel to Stel, from subculture to subculture, we’ve talked about Stel Orion being very broad in its understanding of normative beauty, but there’s no outside of ideology. And so, in this case, I specifically don’t mean that they like… they aspire to or are something like oppositional or critical aesthetics of 2019. They’re beyond that, they’re beyond what even the most oppositional aesthetics that we can imagine in 2019 as being beautiful. Even if we were like “I’m going to try imagine a body that is hideous by normative standards, and I’m going to insist that it is beautiful”, they have to be beyond that. And that’s unreachable for me as a person who lives in 2019, but it has to be the aspiration, it has to be the goal, that is what is true for who these people are.


2 is: any time that we show them in shapes that would please us, anytime that I’m like “Yo! Wow, cool robot!” any time that I’m, like…  Any time that I describe them in ways that are powerful is a tragedy. Any time that we would get any pleasure out of the description of them is a tragedy. They are coercing their own bodies so that they may do war well, or so that they may speak to humanoid life in a way that humanoids are comfortable with. Any time that we go “That’s cool!” is a tragedy for whoever I’m describing. 


Finally, they’re posthuman not transhuman. Generously: Transhumanism is a philosophy that centers the needs and desires of the human subject; they look towards technologies to broaden the domain of the human across time and space. Transhumanism sees “the future” as “the future of humanity,” and think about it in terms of opening up what “humanity” means. This can be really attractive because it means that we can take more control over our bodies, it means we can imagine ourselves in different ways. It means that we can defeat disease, like cancer, it means that we can reshape our bodies until they please us, etc. But fundamentally transhumanism is about the human, it starts and ends with the human. Posthumanism is willing to discard the human entirely, it emphasizes humanity as only one gear in a massive, rattling machine of systems, pressures, and agents. Posthumanism doesn’t put the human above the weather or the rock, or the star or the cargo container being shipped across the ocean. All of those things are just things. We are just things, we are not special things, we are not meant to be the center of history, we should not contort history around us. A Branched, free from war with empire, a Branched before the Unbroken War, might have had more in common with a poem or a power cable or a finch or a radio transmission than a chef, a soldier, or a senator. This is what I mean when I say that the Branched are alien. We might metaphorically describe someone as being like a poem to us, a Branched is a poem. A Branched is- is a poem, right? Like, I… it has the breadth of all... It is the most utopian thing we’ve ever had on screen, as a culture, as a people. They are the most ambitious I can think for what is- what does the future look like, one in which humanity doesn’t exist anymore. We’ve gone beyond it. Which means that we’ve gone beyond those aspirations. And because yet we are humanity, because yet humanity exists in this world, again, this is a core question of the season, is: even if somewhere in the world we manage to shed what made us into conquerors, if we don’t all shed it at the same time how quickly are we remade into spears? And… So that is the Branched. And those are the concerns that if you wanna go play a game set in the Unbroken War, these are the concerns that you should try to focus on. I don’t know how to tell a game about the Unbroken War that’s not a tragedy all the way through it, I wish you well if you’re going to go do that. 
[01:00:35]


Phew, okay. That’s more than I intended to write by a lot. We’re currently in my personal recording, not counting edits, because I always- these always take much longer to record than to edit, I’ve been recording now for like 90 minutes. So. Again, I will throw out a lot of that, because that’s how it works. Anyway. 


This has already been a huge update, and so I’m going to leave it on this next thing. One more map. After all, while everything I’ve just said is useful for fan games and super useful for me in terms of like understanding the stakes in the galaxy writ large, doing that thing I said about having social relationships—excuse me— reflect material conditions and ideological practices, I need all of that in my head so that I can zoom in on one little town where an explosion is gonna happen and everything is gonna go weird, like… It won’t matter for most of the week-to-week, right? Like, my players are going to see this map, or have seen this map—and it’s like, they don’t have to think about this map at all. They can think about it, you know, conceptually, they can think about it thematically. That map doesn’t really matter for what their characters are doing week-to-week, they just aren’t, it just doesn’t matter. I said—excuse me—I said it on the Discord, months ago, that this is going to be a game set in a single place, where the camera is not trying to follow a larger meta-plot, but is staying super focused on this set of characters and their actions in this a single world. And it might reverberate outwards, that might have other consequences, and the outside world certainly could come filtered in, but this is a story about this world, about this moon, and that moon is of course, the Blessed Moon of Partizan. And it looks like this. 
[01:02:17 - Map of Partizan] 

Which is a dramatic way to say you should again scroll down, and hopefully you maybe have already done this, for another map that Annie did for us, again adapting another map that I will again embed, that is hideous that I sent to Annie. I’ll also embed the rules to how I generated this map. I generated this map over on the donjon generation set of pages, and so there’s a link there, and a description of like what I put in to generate this map. I just experimented a lot until I found something I really, really liked, that reflected the story we told about the birth of the Prophet’s Sea. If I started listing what I love about this map I would go on for another 4000 or 5000 words. So just note for now, that just about everything you see on this map has been discussed elsewhere in updates. There’s a couple things here that are unexplained, and I’m gonna leave most of those still… You know, draw maps, leave blank spaces. So, unexplained. 


But one thing that I’ll note here and you’ll see eventually that there is a progression on this map, and I used that word without thinking about it. But there is progression here. From west to east in terms of the map going from barren moon to more lush tropics to the sea to kind of plains and mountains and things. And that’s intentional, that is not … The map is weird and it should be weird, and we’ll get into why that’s weird eventually. So. I’ll bet that you can make some educated guests now—guesses, not guests—guesses now. 


I’m going to start wrapping up ‘cause I’ve already gone on so so so long, I have to cut it together still and everything else. Because I feel like don’t… I mean- One is, I just want to say how excited I am about PARTIZAN, and how excited I’ve been to do all of this stuff.


We have recorded episode 00 already. We have recorderd… probably the first five episodes 00 through… 00, 01, 02, 03, and 04, at this point. 00 will hit on the 19th, 01 will hit I think on the 26th or 27th. That’s a holiday weekend, or a week, so it could be a little bit delayed. There also obviously won’t be a holiday special this year, because all of the work that would normally go into a Holiday Special and a lot more than that has gone into getting PARTIZAN off the ground. This is the most worldbuilding we’ve done before season ever. I’m happy that most of that happened in games, that most of the happened in The Road to PARTIZAN, and you got to hear most of it between there and here. 


This is the first time I’ve ever done anything like this in terms of showing and being transparent, and, frankly, like, it has been super fun, and also super super stressful. I appreciate everyone’s enthusiasm, I really really do, I hope we deliver on that enthusiasm. You might imagine- you might be able to imagine, if take a breath and think about it, like how stressful this is, the last big original thing we did was Twilight Mirage, and it was messy and difficult. And we had lots of constant feedback about it, and we had lots of constant feedback that was not, like, caught up to what was released already in terms of like… You know, we’ve had- There were times that an episode would come out, and someone would raise a question that’s like, yeah, we’ve answered that in five or six weeks, and like, you’re not- you’re gonna have to sit on not- You’re gonna have to sit on your worry that we’re gonna do X thing for five weeks. And I understand why you’re worried about it, it’s just- it’s- I can’t just directly come out and say “Hey, yeah, we know that this decision looks like X, but stay tuned.” Because that’s not a satisf- we did that and it wasn’t satisfying for anybody, you know what I mean? And so you have to— I hope people understand that anytime we start something new, it’s not gonna have the sort of— I mean, pause. 1. I love what we’ve recorded already, but I just want everyone… I hope you’ll continue to give us patience, continue to give us your support, because trying new things is incredibly scary. I mean this, obviously, for me as a storyteller, but everyone else is a storyteller too. Everyone else is creating new characters to embody for the first time since Twilight Mirage—in a long term sense, obviously, we’ve done Live games, and Bluffs, and stuff like that, and that’s good practice, but, you know, a Bluff is a couple of nights of recording, and then you’re done and you get to move on, and if you’re like “Oh, I hated the character I played”, you can just move on. This is tough! And it’s the same thing with the music, right? Like, Jack right now is probably working on the music for this season as I record, you know. They’ve been sending me notes, we’ve been having meeting and going over what our ideas are, and what sounds we wanna use, and talking about what, like—we’re in it in that way, and it is… it is very stressful. And it is very rewarding when it works, and you just never know if it’s gonna work. 


So, I appreciate your patience for this season. I appreciate your enthusiasm, but if we’re like a little quiet right now, if we’re a little bit more standoffish, I think it’s because… you’re trying to launch something and you have no idea if it’s gonna explode a few minutes after it takes into the sky, right? So, I hope that that’s understandable. 


I will let you know that this is the last of these Drawing Maps updates for the year probably. Like, maybe I’ll sneak a Bluff one in or something, I don’t remember if I’m caught up on these yet. I’ve done a lot of them, and I’ve done way more for these than I’ve one for the previous ones in a sense, even though the whole point of doing those recorded was supposed to save me time, and in fact it has cost me way more time than ever before. But I really enjoyed them, I really enjoyed showing this work. I like doing this work, it’s a fun way to- to kind of like really internalize it, because explaining something means you’ve internalized it- it helps you to internalize something. And I just wanna say, so this is the last one of these, the pre-PARTIZAN ones. The next one will probably be in the New Year, and it will probably be in a new format again. I’m going to be go back to a stream format but with a different focus, so that it is something I can very easily put into audio. But my plan is to go ever the prep that I’ve done ahead of any given arc, but after the arc has already aired. So, once the first arc of Twiligh—I almost said Twilight Mirage, Jesus! So, you can see! This is what I mean. I’m in my feeling for Twilight Mirage still, I will never get over it. I started to talk about it today, about how hard it was to make that fucking thing. Anyway. 


After the first arc of PARTIZAN goes up—maybe the first two, but probably the first one, we’ll see.—I will do a Post Mortem. Just like a Post Mortem Drawing Maps where I go over that prep, where I—with maybe a little bit of the prep going forward, based on that- that initial prep that we’re going over—but go over kind of everything I’ve prepped, what didn’t come up in play, and what might still come up in play in another, you know, session, um, the stuff that like… the kind of Mission Report structure that we’re using in Beam Saber, that is like a… So, the way that you prep missions in Beam Saber is you kind of put together a bunch of different… not objectives… Let me look at the actual list really quick, that I have in front of me, ‘cause I ran these games. Um. You have a briefing, an employer, a target, your rules of engagement, your objectives, you complications, your characters (which is also where I put my mechs), and challenges. And so I’ll go over what those things look like, and talk through how those went, and then- and then, uh, be able to talk about that in terms of like “Wow, if you listened to this stuff, here it is.” And ‘cause those would be live the thing that I’m excited about is you’ll be able to ask questions for it, for people who can tune in. And then, again, that’s something that I can probably quickly turn around ‘cause it will just be my audio which means I can control it a 100%, and it will probably still be short enough that I won’t need to like edit it down, and split into multiple parts, and blah-blah-blah-blah. 


So, that will be first… somewhere in the middle of January is when I’ll do the next Drawing Maps update, and that’ll be that sort of Post Mortem thing. And listen, if we do it, and I decide like “Ugh, this sucks! I miss doing these long lore dump episodes”, then maybe I’ll do it that another way. But I’m a little cautious about making Drawing Maps a forward-looking thing in terms of specifics during the season. Mostly because I think most people just don’t wanna know. Most people want to talk about things in the broad worldbuilding way, or in a looking back way in terms of what happened in this specific mission, or this arc, or whatever. And so that appeals to me way more than the opposite. So yeah. 


Alright, I’m gonna wrap up now. Thank you again for listening, and for you support. As always, you can support the show at FriendsAtTheTable.cash, you can still go order our holiday stuff at FriendsAtTheTable.shop, our kind of winter wonderland, our Bluff City Zoo Snowfari stuff at FriendsAtTheTable.shop. You can also still pick up the Hieron maps which are still on sale, available at FriendsAtTheTable.shop. Actually, wait. Are they still on sale? I meant, like, that we’re still selling them, but let me see if we have those at sale rate. We do! We still have the sale rate as of this recording, $10 for a single poster, $25 for the triptych, for all three of them. 


Alright, that is gonna do it for us for real, for me for real. I hope that these have been enjoyable, and I hope that 2019 wraps up smoothly- as smoothly as possible for everyone listening. Have a great day... or night, or afternoon, or evening, or… middle of the night if you’re like me. [Austin laughs a bit.] Talk to everyone soon. Bye-bye-bye!