Gathering Information 09: Two Wild Beasts
Transcriber: Mikah
Introduction        1
What is Yuri? [00:01:05]        3
Elle/Cori [00:07:15]        9
The Wants and Needs of Rivals [00:15:00]        15
Another Kind of Rivalry [00:19:45]        19
Continuing Cori [00:24:45]        23
But How Long is Palisade Going to Be Really [00:29:55]        27
Essential Orbital [00:34:25]        32
Making GM Decisions [00:41:00]        37
Teasing The Slow Knife [00:46:20]        41
Wrestling is Yaoi and also Yuri [00:50:50]        47
A Real Teaser of The Slow Knife [01:01:15]        60
Protecting the Business [01:04:05]        63
Love for the Blue Channel [01:13:45]        73
Final Plugs [01:21:25]        78
Introduction
Ali: Hello, and welcome to Gathering Information, your behind-the-scenes look at setting the table for Friends at the Table. This is our December 2020…3? [laughs] Episode.
Austin: [cross] You got it. 
Ali: Uh-huh. As you can hear, I'm joined today by Austin Walker.
Austin: Hi! 
Ali: And Sylvi Bullet.
Sylvi: Hello!
Austin: We don't have to plug anything, this is for the real ones, right?
Ali: Right, yeah. Well, you could just say hi, what's up.
Austin: Hi, I'm Austin, what's up. 
Ali: [giggles] 
Austin: Um…yeah. 
Sylvi: How's it going? Oh, yeah? Oh, I'm glad to hear it. 
Austin: Eh. Happy holidays. Yeah, oh wow, you're doing the whole like, they're responding to you, that's good.
Sylvi: I mean, you know. 
Ausin: Mm-hm. 
Sylvi: We roleplay, on this show, typically?
Austin: Oooh. 
Ali: [giggling] Mm-hm. 
Sylvi: So I'm letting them get involved. 
Austin: We roleplay on this show: bring your ass back to, and then fill in the name of one of our enemies.
Sylvi: [laughs]
Ali: Yeah. [sighing] Oooh. I can't believe somebody—
Austin: [cross] They roleplay on our enemies, too, so. 
Ali: —wished for the fall of Discord the other day while we were recording the Chime! 
Austin: While we were— for the Chime, it's true.
Sylvi: Oh, no!
Austin: [softly] It's true. 
What is Yuri? [00:01:05]
Ali: It's fine, it's fine, it's fine. Anyway, we can jump right into it today because I think that we have…there's something that we have to unlock, that we have to get to the bottom to today…
Austin: Uh oh. 
Sylvi: Oh.
Ali: And I needed the two of you for.
Austin: Okay.
Ali: What is yuri? 
Sylvi: [laughs hard] 
Austin: [laughing] Great question. 
Ali: [giggling]
Austin: Sylvi?
Sylvi: I'm great, I'm so good, I'm so happy right now. Sorry, that really— that really hit me. 
Austin: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: [continues laughing] Oh wow, oh my waveform, sorry about that, Ali. Um…great question, great question. [Ali: Mm-hm.] Um…so this is going to be a five hour episode.
Austin: Yeah, a five hour episode, uh-huh. Yeah.
Ali: [laughs] Yeah, this is going to be, this is going to be for the new year, [Sylvi: Mm-hm] we're doing a…what's it called? 
Sylvi: Miniseries?
Austin: Resolution, we're making a New Year's resolution to have more yuri in the show? 
Ali: [laughs] I was going to say like a— you know, when colleges do like an x series, like a…
Austin: Ooooh. Like a year in review? Or like a…I'm trying to figure out what you mean. [Ali: [laughs]] Oh, like a lecture series.
Ali: Yes, a lecture series, yes. 
Austin: [cross] Yes, yes, yes.
Sylvi: Okay! 
Ali: Yes, yes, for the next six months we're doing a lecture series on what yuri is. 
Austin: Wow. I bet that that, I bet that—
Sylvi: Don't— that would play. That would play with our audience. 
Austin: It would.
Sylvi: I think so.
Austin: I bet that that is…I bet that there is like an anthology, like a written anthology on yuri. Like an academic—
Ali: Uh-huh, sure. 
Sylvi: Oh, almost definitely. 
Ali: Yeah. 
Austin: I'm sure, I'm so sure. 
Ali: Uh-huh. And this will join the ranks today because? [Sylvi: laughs] You know.
Austin: Damn.
Ali: Let's get to the bottom of it!
Austin: Okay! 
Sylvi: Yeah! Um…
Austin: Girls love…
Ali: Uh-huh. 
Austin: Girls. That's…that's yuri. 
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Ali: Oh, are we done already? [laughs]
Austin: No, it's much more complicated than that. 
Sylvi: Love can mean so many things. 
Ali: Mm-hm. 
Austin: Yeah. True.
Sylvi: Um…sometimes it's—
Austin: And so can "girl," honestly.
Sylvi: So can girl, honestly— Let me tell ya, I'm aware. Um…[laughs]
Ali: But yeah, so the— in a recent episode of Palisade, [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] there was the declaration that making eye contact with your rival…
Austin: Right. Right.
Sylvi: Oh yeah.
Ali: …as she walks away, [Austin: Yeah.] and you are unable to do anything 'cause you're doing a magic spell to make people not hate each other, is yuri.  
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh?
Sylvi: I like really…there's like a specific Iori Miyazawa quote that is why I said that, and I need to find it? 
Austin: You need to find it. To back this up.
Sylvi: Um…just because he could say it like better than I could. [Ali: Okay.] Um…god. 
Austin: For me, that's yuri.
Sylvi: Yeah, please!
Austin: So, you know, I think we have seen— uh, I think…I'm going to say the thing I was going to say instead of trying to qualify it. I think one thing that's part of homoeroticism is that it is, it— homoeroticism…the erotic in general is always in context? And homoeroticism is often in the context of "ooh, I want this thing but I'm in a context that denies me this thing" and sometimes that context is not society, it is my will towards another different thing? And I can feel the rubber band between me and another person stretching and all I want it to do is snap back and bring us together. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: To me that is yuri. 
Sylvi: No, absolutely. I found the quote, too. 
Ali: Please.
Austin: Okay, good. Please. Who is this with? Can you contextualize this quote? 
Sylvi: So, yeah. Iori Miyazawa is the author of "Otherside Picnic," [Austin: Right.] which is based on…
Austin: Uh, uh…"Roadside Picnic," and Stalker, and…
Sylvi: It's like loosely based on "Roadside Picnic?" And is also a very popular yuri series. And this is from an interview called "Yuri Made Me Human." [Austin: Right.] At least that's the translated name for it? And there's a specific quote about "strong yuri," which is…I'm just going to read this verbatim, it's pretty quick. 
"This 'relationship' doesn't necessarily have to be 'love,'" in quotes, "love is one of the things this colossal 'something' envelops within itself. I think at this point everyone can agree that the definition of yuri as just 'love between two women' is no longer applicable. This 'something' that connects two women together is sometimes referred to as an 'unidentified enormous emotion.'" That's bolded. [Ali: [laughs]]
[laughing] "This concept dates back to around 2016." Dates a little further back than that, man. 
Austin: [laughing] Yeah. Uh-huh.
Sylvi: "The better you depict the change in the 'emotions,' the more 'high-resolution'…" These are also— "emotions" and "high-resolution," also bolded. "The more real the work of fiction will feel. High-resolution yuri is 'strong' yuri." 
Austin: [laughs]
Sylvi: And I do agree with him on that, though! Where it's like…that—
Austin: Is this the one that also has the Sicario quote in it? 
Sylvi: I think so? I'm looking, the Sicario— no, this is a different interview, I think.
Austin: Okay, I have the Sicario one in front of me.
Sylvi: The Sicario one is fantas— oh, no, wait, yeah, this is in the—
Austin: [cross] You got it? 
Sylvi: —[cross] the Sicario interview, yeah.
Austin: [cross] Do you want to read that?
Sylvi: If you have it, you can read it too. 
Austin: Okay. "There's this movie called 'Sicario' by Denis Villenueve," uh, I never know how to pronounce Denis Villneuve's name.
Sylvi: I think it's Villaneuve [pronounced Villa-nway-vuh] —
Austin: [cross] Villanueve [pronounced Villa-nway-vuh]?
Sylvi: —is how I've pronounced it? But I think I'm wrong. 
Austin: Sure. "...released in 2015. It's a thrilling—"
Sylvi: It's Villaneuve [pronounced Vill-noov]. Sorry.
Austin: Villneuve, thank you. Denis, and it's Denis [pronounced Den-ee], isn't it, it's Denis.
Sylvi: It's Denis, yeah, 'cause he's French. 
Austin: Yeah, yeah, of course. Uh, "It's a thrilling masterpiece about the drug war in Mexico. The composer of the movie soundtrack, Jóhan Jóhannsson, passed away this year, and according to one of his interviews, there were two themes in the soundtrack. The sense of dread of two wild beasts glaring and pouncing at each other represents the battle to the death between the illegal police force and the mafia. And the other theme was the melancholy of the border area, two emotional themes. If you listen to the soundtrack with that in mind, you cannot perceive it as anything but 'yuri.' Though the movie itself is not yuri at all." 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Interviewer: "So if neither the story nor the characters have any yuri, what exactly are you supposed to imagine?" Uh, Miyazawa says, "Two wild beasts glaring and pouncing at each other. It's yuri, isn't it?"
Ali: [laughing]
Elle/Cori [00:07:15]
Sylvi: And that brings us to Elle Evensong and Cori Sunset. [Austin: Uh-huh.] Which straight up…
Austin: [cross] Which, like— yeah. I want to emphasize—
Sylvi: Like, this mentality is something we've brought in.
Austin: Yes. I want to emphasize what you just said though, Sylvi, which is like, this isn't new. I think that there is a…uh, this interview gets passed around a lot as like, a novel take on yuri, but Miyazawa is identifying trends already in yuri. 
Sylvi: Yeah, absolutely.
Austin: And saying them in clear words, which is like, great criticism, honestly, even though obviously Miyazawa is a creator. A creator and author and artist. 
Sylvi: I think like, broadly, too, also this is just something that exists in all queer art, right? [Austin: Correct. That's right.] And not even art that's explicitly queer— yeah, I know, I figured it's just worth saying that, uh, you know, yaoi can also be two wild beasts glaring at each other.
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: It sure can. It almost often is. You know?
Sylvi: It very frequently is, yeah.
Austin: Yeah, uh-huh. 
Ali: I feel like I have a map of the Palisade couples, and Elle and Cori is yuri. [Sylvi: Yeah.] Jesset and Brnine is yaoi.
Austin: [simultaneously] Is yaoi.
Sylvi: Yes.
Ali: [laughing] And Gucci and Brnine is straight somehow?
Austin: Is straight somehow. 
Sylvi: It's— no, no, that makes perfect sense, actually.
Austin: Or it's like…it's not straight, but— because like the gender roles are not— they're not— it's not straight? [Ali: Right. Uh-huh.] But it's in the straight, like, format. It's not like— you know what I mean? 
Ali: [laughing] Yes.
Sylvi: [laughs]
Austin: In a better world, straight would be a genre of relationship [Ali: Mm-hm.] that you could write in or be in, instead of being like heteronormativity is shot at you in your fucking brain since birth.  
Sylvi: Austin Walker confirms, Gucci Garantine: assimilationist queer. 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: [laughs] Uh, probably, right? 
Sylvi: Probably. 
Austin: I mean, probably in that big scene that Gucci and Brnine had was like, Gucci realizing you don't have to be, a little bit, right? [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] That's kind of what made that scene in the infirmary work, is Gucci being like, "I thought I had to assimilate. I don't have to assimilate. There are other ways of being." 
We haven't seen that yet, and I haven't quite figured out what that would mean for Gucci? 'Cause Gucci has been Gucci since the beginning, and I want to take that scene seriously— the easy thing to do would be to play Gucci as like, that was a moment— and the sad thing to do, would be, Gucci was in the moment felt that way but then slowly slides back to becoming Gucci. Right? Um, that's a thing like real people do all the time. 
The other version of it is that I have to imagine a new way of being for Gucci, and that like, seeing this happen really did change who she was. Right? And that's interesting to me. What does the…you know, increasing…getting towards, you know, later young adulthood, I guess she's thirty-something by now, right? Actually, I have no idea how old Gucci was supposed to be in Partizan. But I'm imagining her as older than…like, you know, Brnine's age, maybe a little older, right? [Ali: Mm-hm.] In that space. And…I'm sure there's a canon answer here and I'm wrong. But what does the shift happening then feel like for a character like that? Um, I don't know. We'll find out.
Ali: Yeah. Well, back to Cori and Elle, though, [Austin: Yes.] which is sort of the focus on this episode. Let's just start from the beginning! Because I remember when Elle was introduced, and I was like, "oh, this is—" [laughs] 
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: [laughing sigh] Ohhh. 
Ali: This is peak character design, this is Austin knowing his players…
Austin: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: [laughs hard]
Ali: And this is targeted…
Austin: How did I even… oh yeah, straight up targeted!
Sylvi: Oh, so targeted. 
Ali: Tailored…
Sylvi: I felt like a laser, like you know when there's a sniper aiming at someone in a movie and you see the little red dot on the person, [Austin: Uh-huh.] I felt like that. I was like, oh, I'm in Austin's sights right now. And continue to be. Uh, headshot every time she shows up. 
Austin: Yeah. The first thing I wrote down for Elle was, "That's not my blood." That was the beginning of the character. 
Sylvi: Hell yeah.
Austin: It was like her— 'cause you use blood. [Sylvi: Yeah.] You use your blood. Or it was, "it's not my blood." I have now the notes in front of me. "It's not my blood I'm using," basically. And in my mind the…the first thing I would have written would have been Cori giving more and more of her blood to the machine, and being like, "how can Elle keep up, I've given all my blood to this machine?" And Elle revealing, "I'm not using my blood, idiot. Like why would I use my own blood?" And that being the sort of like, the puzzle piece interlocking inverse relationship, right?
Sylvi: And that's still their dynamic.
Austin: [cross] It is, totally.
Sylvi: Like even though we didn't have that scene happen word for word, that has very much been a lot of the…like when they have scenes together, that is the vibe of it.
Austin: Right. Well, and then I think the other thing for me was that— that I'm so fascinated with is like, Elle…and this is like a meta-fascination, not an in-character fascination, but Elle is a mirror image of Cori. And as such is…secondary, right? I almost said submissive and that's not really what I mean, I mean it in like a formal, technical sense, right? 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Elle as a character is a reflection of Cori. Cori is not a reflection of Elle. But Elle acts as if Cori is a reflection of Elle, right? [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] Like in the fiction — you know, Cori is Elle Take 2 in the culture, right? Because Elle was already the big hero. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: But in the actual fiction, and in the way that the audience is hearing it, they knew Cori first, right? And so structurally Elle is secondary, and that to me is a fascinating tension to pull on. And is part of the yuri, right?
Sylvi: Absolutely.
Austin: The relationship is not as simple as, you know, like "this is my senpai." It is…
Sylvi: There's a bit of that.
Austin: I mean, it is. Of course.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: You knew immediately though, as soon as that was on screen. Or on recording. 
Sylvi: Oh, yeah. It was already just like perfectly teed up to make her my rival with everything that happened in that session? 
Ali: Mm-hm.
Sylvi: You know, dad death and spy reveal? 
Austin: Uh-huh? 
Ali: [giggles]
Sylvi: But everything since has been…I don't know, it's really been validating the decision to be like, "I want a rival this season." 
Austin: Uh-huh. Which wait— maybe, had you already told me you really wanted a rival? 
Sylvi: I think it might— I don't remember specifically. I think I might have mentioned something about it…um, but…
Austin: [typing] I'm checking.
Sylvi: If it was, it was in passing. Yeah.
Austin: Yeah. But it's one of those things that like, that's the thing that I— that's my job, right?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Is like, okay, note that someone says, "I would love to have a rival this season." You know?
Ali: [giggles]
Sylvi: I think part of it also might have been because I had the rivalry with Motion in Partizan?
Ali: [in background] Ooooh. 
Austin: You diiiiiiiiid, you did have that, that's true. 
Sylvia: Which also something I've been thinking about a lot when we…coming to this, 'cause it's like so different in…the rivalry vibes are so different?
Austin: Oh, absolutely.
Sylvi: And also, you know, there's some similarities that people can indulge in if they want. I don't necessarily— I'm not really coming at it from that angle? But like…
Austin: Would you say that the Motion—
Sylvi: I've seen enough ‘Motion is Hot’ posts.
Austin: Oh yeah, they're out there. Motion and Millie, not yuri. 
Sylvi: No, not really. 
Austin: You could write yuri with those characters, [cross] but we were not doing that, especially. 
Sylvi: [cross] You could. Yes.
Austin: Uh, the one yuri moment with Motion and Millie in Partizan is, "I love it when a plan comes together." 
Sylvi: Yeah…
Austin: And the door opens and you're confronted. But that was really more of a yuri moment with the audience? In which—
Sylvi: [laughs hard] 
Austin: I was having a yuri moment with the listener by revealing Cassander but evil, for a moment.
Sylvi: Oh, that was great. I loved seeing everyone react to that. We make a good show. 
Austin: Yeah. Mm-hm.
Ali: [giggles]
The Wants and Needs of Rivals [00:15:00]
Austin: So, yeah! Tell me more, what is working for you about the stuff since then? 'Cause from the outside, I'm just like, throwing stuff at the wall and being like, okay, is this going to work?
Sylvi: So, I think— I'm going to pull up our sheets, actually, [Austin: Yeah, go for it.] so I can look at these specifically. 'Cause I think a big thing that's been helping with, specifically Armour Astir, is the way that Briar has designed rivalries to have both a want and a need?
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvi: And those aren't necessarily always aligned for Elle, and those also like sometimes, hey, guess what, I indulge in Elle's want quite a bit? [Austin: Yes.] Because I think it's interesting for Cori as a character. 
Austin: Yeah, so those are like— can you read those since you have them up? 
Sylvi: Yes, I just got them. So Elle's need is to "ensure her true master wins out on Palisade," and her want is to "shake Cori's faith in Devotion." And so like by giving her both a conflict scale thing that's happening, [Austin: Mm-hm.] where she's sort of butting heads with the Blue Channel all the time on that, [Austin: Yeah.] mixed with this more personal thing of like— I mean, there's multiple interpretations on why you could— she would want to shake Cori's faith in Devotion? 
Austin: Yeah. But the way that it's been playing does have an element of— I mean, I would say that there's an open question as to how much of it is that they want Cori to be on…how much do they want Cori to not be an obstacle in the way of Arbitrage? 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Versus "you're kind of a pet project to me," versus "I've gone through all this before and I'm actually trying to keep you from becoming the poster child of this movement that's just taking advantage of you." You know?
Sylvi: Yeah. And it's been so fun having the interplay between that and Cori's arc with coping with the aftermath of her dad's death. 
Austin: Yeah…
Sylvi: And then learning about her dad being less of a paragon that she thought he was when she goes into the Dust world and stuff like that, and like…
Austin: Which we still have more to do with, right? Because it's like…[Sylvi: Yeah.] It's interesting—
Sylvi: I mean, that downtime isn't out yet, right? 
Austin: That downtime's not out yet, is it? 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Interesting.
Ali: No.
Austin: Okay. Hm. Interesting. 
Sylvi: If you guys like yuri…
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: Just wait til that downtime.
Austin: Yeah. We're kind of setting up a situation in some ways, which is good to think about. But what I would say is that like, I think that the thing I've liked doing with it is, I've not felt like I need to put my foot down on the pedal with the rivalry? It can be a slow burn in some ways because I know that like, you'll throw a punch at Elle, and eventually— and in a fight scene, you'll fight Elle. But like when it's the two of you talking, we will play it the way the anime would play it, [Sylvi: Yeah!] which is, you have the shield up and I slowly get to walk away. Which was the perfect contrivance in the moment anyway, that we got to take advantage of? But like—
Sylvi: I was so happy. 
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: You know, there are some times when you try to do a rivalry in a game where it's just like, well why wouldn't this just be the fucking end of it right now? You know what I mean? Why wouldn't one of them just kill the other one? They're killers, you know? But I think we found a really good groove with them. So.
Sylvi: It's been very nice. And it's also been such a…as a player a really fantastic catalyst for Cori's character development in a lot of ways? 
Austin: Mm-hm.
Sylvi: I think that like…yeah, I don't know. I think that just in general having the person who is explicitly being like, "Hey, Devotion's not what you think it is" helps a lot when the people on the Blue Channel kind of care about how Cori feels and don't necessarily want to be like, "Hey, your dad was doing some fucked up shit."
Ali: [laughs quietly]
Austin: Mm-hm. Mm-hm? 
Sylvi: Having the character who is both someone that Cori, I mean, I've pretty explicitly said has looked up to in the past and partially in the present [Austin: Mm-hm.] be the one who gives her the harsh truths about the fact that she's kind of being used by her religious group is like…it makes it hit really well?
[pause] 
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: It's also just always so fun to play characters that have an offscreen history together? 
Ali: [quietly] Yeah.
Austin: [quietly] Oh, true. 
Sylvi: 'Cause there's always so much blank space to just be like…
Austin: This is just like the time when blank happened, yeah—
Sylvi: [cross] Yeah, this thing happened. Yeah yeah yeah.
Austin: —we just have to roll with it, yeah yeah yeah. We do that too often.
Sylvi: “Do you remember when you said this to me,” and I'd be like, "well, yeah, I do now."
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: But it really is just kind of…it's…we have infinite "yes, and" space there, you know? [Austin: Yeah…] And that's really fun. 
Another Kind of Rivalry [00:19:45]
Austin: Yeah. Um? Ali, do you have more yuri questions? I don't want to step on your yuri questions. 
Ali: [giggling] Oh no no.
Sylvi: Yeah…
Ali: No, I just think the…what you were saying, Sylvi, about like everybody on the Blue Channel caring about Cori's emotions and the introduction of these ideas from Elle, I found really interesting just listening to it, because like…this could be a much easier story for Cori in terms of moving away from Devotion. [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] But since Elle is the one leading her there, you sort of have this like in-character reason to reject it [Sylvi: Yeah.] that wouldn't be there otherwise? [laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah, it's great.
Austin: The fox leading you away from the wolf, like, you know? Or maybe the reverse. Who could say who's who.
Sylvi: Who, you know? 
Austin: [cross] Yeah, I think eventually we’ll have to… 
Sylvi: [cross] Play to find out what happens! 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Yeah, yeah. 
Sylvi: Two wild beasts glaring at each other, right?
Austin: [laughing] Yeah, exactly!
Ali: [giggles]
Austin: [sighing] God. 
Sylvi: I'm so glad, I'm so glad we got that quote, I was frantic trying to find it. 
Austin: Yeah, no, it's important, it's important. And yeah, I think that it's interesting 'cause it's…Sylvi, we had Motion as a rival, we haven't done other major rivalry type beats. I guess we did— that's not true, we did Uno Riscano [laughs] and Hazard. [Sylvi: Yeah.] That was— when I say like I'm glad we don't have to put the pedal to the floor, we had to for that 'cause the season was like halfway over when you took up Hazard in Sangfielle.
Sylvi: Yeah. And that was very explicitly a revenge story, too, with Hazard, right?
Austin: Yes. Yes. Yes.
Sylvi: Like Hazard's goal was, "I'm going to kill this guy." [Austin: Yes.] "I'm going to kill this Dorito-shaped devil." That's the one thing I remember about him is you describing him as being built like a Dorito like Chris Evans. 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: [laughing] Did I say that? 
Sylvi: I swear to god, you did at one point.
Austin: Was that in the shower scene!?
Sylvi: Ummmm…I think it was when we were in the dream town? 
Austin: Ooooh. 
Sylvi: If I made this up, nobody correct me. 
Austin: Okay. I simply won't. If this is a thing that you made up, then that's incredible.
Sylvi: It's whatever. Yeah, I mean, you know. 
Ali: [continues laughing] I…
Sylvi: I got yaoi brain and yuri brain. 
Austin: Yeah, I get it.
Ali: [slowly] A Dorito like Chris Evans. [laughs]
Austin: Is that what I said— wait, is that what I said?
Sylvi: No, that was me. I think you said he was built like muscular and my brain went, "oh yeah, like an upside down Dorito, like Chris Evans." 
Ali and Austin: [laugh]
Sylvi: Hold on, hold on. 
Austin: That's very…
Sylvi: I've got an ima— this is a thing, I googled it and there's multiple images of a Dorito superimposed over Chris Evans, okay? 
Ali: Okay, okay.
Sylvi: So like, I'm not crazy here.
Austin: [resigned] Okay, okay. Yeah, sure. Okay. I believe you. 
Sylvi: [laughs]
Austin: Anyway.
Sylvi: Anyway. [pause] You were saying, unlike Motion and—
Austin: Unlike that, yeah.
Sylvi: —Uno…
Austin: Well like Motion, we got to do a slow build and burn on but again, I don't think that we had the…neither of us were pursuing the like erotic undertones of a rivalry on that. [Sylvi: No.] We were playing that a lot more straight up of a rivalry. Right? 
Sylvi: That was…I mean, yeah, that was like, this is Millie's final boss, [Austin: Right.] this is a symbol of the—
Austin: [cross] The abuse and the— Sorry.
Sylvi: —the fascist military that abused her her entire life. [Austin: Yes.] Like that was the way that we played it more.
Austin: Yes. Absolutely. Whereas— which is why, like, you know. [sighs] There are…you could write that story. I don't know that I'd be able to write that story well in a live…[Sylvi: Yeah.] You could write the version of it that has the erotic undertones or that has the emo— you know what I mean? [Sylvi: Yeah.] But I think it would take a really great writer, and it would take writing and not improv at the table.
Sylvi: Absolutely.
Austin: You're working in a lot of really risky spaces there, right? And fraught and freighted and all those other words. So, you know, I don't think either of us were rejecting any of that there, outside of like the broad, this is a powerful character and the erotics that come with that naturally. [Sylvi: Yeah.] Whereas— and I think that Uno, very flirty asshole, for sure. 
Sylvi: Yeah! No, absolutely!
Austin: But had to play that— and you know, Motion we didn't have to play quickly, Motion was like half the whole season a kind of primary antagonist from a certain point forward. And got a bunch of cool scenes. But in neither case did we really get the stuff that we're getting with Elle, which is like a conversation at a funeral. You know? And I think you need that for rival. 
Sylvi: Yes.
Austin: You need to have, as we know from all the classic examples, you need to have like, your car broke down and your rival showed up, you know what I mean? [laughs]
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: I mean like, for real though, you do need the backdrop of mundanity to highlight those things when you get back into the…we get back into the heightened spaces of them flying around in mechs [Austin: Yeah.] or being in this dream world 'cause of the Affliction and stuff like that. Like that doesn't work nearly as well if we don't have Elle and Cori's argument at the funeral or the constant sort of bickering that they have flying there on the— at the train fight, you know?
Continuing Cori [00:24:45]
Austin: Yeah, yeah. Can I ask if you know…maybe you shouldn't say this into a microphone. [Sylvi: Mm-hm?] But I want you to start thinking about what— so I've said before that we're going to do a third season in this broad setting, in the kind of Divine Principality setting.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: And not like a deep…probably not a huge time jump, right? Maybe we do another time ju— I don't know, we'll see how this season ends, right? I kind of have some broad ideas in mind for— I know what the next game will be, you know what I mean?
Sylvi: Ooo. 
Austin: Or I have a good idea of what the next game will be in it? You never fucking know, right, obviously? [Sylvi: Yeah.] But when we get back around to it, I'd love for you to start thinking about, and maybe message me about like, you know, do you plan on playing Cori in that season? You know, assuming Cori makes it out of this one alive.  
Sylvi: Yeah…
Austin: Or okay. And thinking about things like how…do you want the Elle rivalry to get wrapped up? And again, we can totally just play to find out what happens, I'm fine with that, but I also know that sometimes players like, "oh, we didn't get to wrap up x, but I wasn't actually planning on playing this character again." You know?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: And so now there's this like loose thread, and that can suck. So give that some thought, I would say. Just so…
Sylvi: So I genuinely have been thinking a lot about where Cori's arc is going, with…the tenet breaking was on the most recent episode, yeah? Right, she got an—
Ali: Mm-hm. Just—
Sylvi: Oh, not most recent player episode, yeah?
Ali: Oh, yeah, the tenet breaking was…because of the…
Sylvi: [cross] Right, 'cause it was right after…
Ali: Yeah, yeah. Just speak freely and I'll figure out release order and timing.
Sylvi: Okay. Well, it's just with that, I've just been thinking a lot about where her arc's headed because I'm at two out of three of those tenets broken. 
Austin: [cross] Yes. Yes.
Ali: Ooooo. 
Sylvi: And we are coming up on forty episodes of Palisade, right?
Austin: Sure are. 
Ali: [giggles]
Austin: [repeats] Sure are. 
Sylvi: So I have been definitely thinking, okay, I kind of had an idea for what I wanted to do next season, which I will not mention on the air, 'cause I want the listeners to sit in it. [Austin: Huh.] I want them to think about—
Austin: [cross] I don't know what this is, listener.
Sylvi: You don't either. I mean, I talked to you a little about it. Umm. [pause] But now I am like, it really does depend on where Cori ends up at the end of this season. 
Austin: Yeah, yeah…
Sylvi: It really depends on like, if and how this last tenet gets broken, because that will mechanically result in a lot of things that will be a catalyst for character change as well?
Austin: Right, right. 
Sylvi: And so it's [sighs]...it's one of those things where I think I weirdly enough have gotten about…this feels like a tangent but just trust me. Um. When Virtue became an NPC, I was expecting to feel weirder about it? But I didn't. [Austin: Huh.] I was like, oh yeah no, Austin knows what he's doing with this, I trust him to be able to play this like horrible vampire queen if she ever comes back up as a character. And like…there's…there's some— listen. I feel like her whole thing is kind of a loose thread, we don't really know what her deal is right now.
Austin: [laughing] We don't. 
Ali: [giggles]
Sylvi: But like, I'm still fine with that, [Austin: Sure.] and if Cori ends up going the direction of— and not necessarily becoming a machine god, that's not what I'm saying, listeners.
Austin: Uh-huh, uh-huh?
Sylvi: But if she ends up like, becoming some sort of non-player character, I would trust you to…handle any plot stuff that came with her?
Austin: Sure, sure. Yeah, and that would be—
Sylvi: [cross] Yeah, I don't know, she's been so fun to play. 
Austin: [cross] —a collaborative thing.
Sylvi: Oh yeah, of course. 
Austin: I don't think I tend to bring back characters with no…[Sylvi: No.]...without sitting with someone and being like, hey, we talked about this earlier…maybe it was just a post, Janine made that post on cohost about the Chimeric Cadent—
Ali: [cross] Oh.
Sylvi: [cross] Yeah.
Austin: —and how I sat with Janine and talked through that stuff before we did most of it. 
Sylvi: [cross] But that's also—
Austin: And we didn't, I didn't say super specifics but I gave a high level brief of what my broad feeling was and then asked her to be like, well, what's up with Signet, you know, what's going on, what are the vibes you would pursue? And so the particulars were exciting and new for her when we got there, but the high level like, oh yeah, I think she's a creepy crawly monster, I want her to be monstrous, you know, was a hundred percent there, you know?
Sylvi: I…that is, I'm very glad you brought that up, actually, 'cause that is another point in the like, oh yeah, I know that if I handed this character off to Austin, that one, we would talk about it? [Austin: Right.] And two, Cori might not come back as a creepy bug thing but she'd definitely come back cool.
Austin: [laughing] Yes. Yes.
Sylvi: Like I know something satisfying would happen.
Austin: We would find the right threads to pull on to make it feel like a cool return if that's what happened, for sure. For sure.
But How Long is Palisade Going to Be Really [00:29:55]
Sylvi: But yeah, it's weird feeling like we are both close to the end of Palisade and also not?
Austin: Yup. 
Ali: Uh-huh?
Sylvi: Like…I'm sure you can both relate.
Austin: Yeah. Uh-huh?
Sylvi: But it's…[laughing sigh]
Austin: What are we doing next year? What's— when is— what time is it? I think I know what we're doing next year, at least, now. 
Sylvi: I think so.
Austin: But I don't know when we're doing it, and that's the one. That's the part that's tough to…
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: Eh. We'll get to it when we get to it. 
Austin: We'll get to it when we get to it.
Ali: I think…last week we had some guesses on how long the rest of the season will be.
Austin: Oh, did we?
Ali: Do either of you want to put your bets in? [laughs]
Sylvi: I mean, honestly? Can I be real? 
Ali: Please.
Sylvi: I thought we were going to blow up the sun? 
Austin: Ah. 
Ali: Uh-huh?
Sylvi: So like, I don't wanna— I don't know if— like, I don't think I'm going to be right on this. 
Austin: Right…
Sylvi: I feel like we're going to hit 50. At least. 
Ali: Oh, for sure.
Sylvi: To be honest.
Austin: Oh, for sure.
Sylvi: 'Cause like, what…ground sessions tend to put up two or three…? 
Austin: Yeah, so we already have two more in the can from the downtime, right?
Ali: [cross] Uh-huh.
Austin: That's a— is that a two episode downtime, Ali? 
Ali: Yeah yeah yeah. 
Austin: Question mark? Okay.
Ali: Yeah!
Austin: Okay. 
Sylvi: Oh yeah, that was a long one.
Austin: So that brings us to 38. 
Ali: Uh-huh. And then another session which is four.
Austin: Yeah, presumably a four episode arc, another month long arc.
Sylvi: Yeah. And then another—
Austin: So that brings us up to 42.
Sylvi: —conflict round, which is two. 
Austin: [cross] Another conflict turn and downtime, bring us up— which is four more, right, which is, if we do it right.
Ali: Right, yeah. I  guess that's the way to think of arcs with Palisade right now, is that like, a chunk of story is eight episodes. 
Austin: Is eight episodes, that's exactly it. Yeah. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: So we're at…[laughing] exactly, exactly. Which is ridiculous. But that means that like we are…we will be at 44 after one more big story chunk. 
Ali: Mm-hm. 
Austin: And then 52 after that? No, that's wrong. No, that's right, 52.
Sylvi: No, you did the math right, yeah.
Austin: Which is a year. That's 52— we could do 52 and then do a finale and maybe be done by 56. 
Ali: Perhaps. [giggles]
Austin: I…[sighs] I don't know. What was Partizan?
Sylvi: [cross] Yeah, it's like, it's…
Austin: [cross] Partizan was only 47, damn.
Sylvi: Yeah, we are absolutely eclipsing Partizan. 
Ali: [cross] But Twilight Mirage was like 90. Or something ridiculous.
Austin: It was not 90. 
Ali: [laughs] Wasn't it like…
Austin: It was 67. 
Ali: Okay. 
Austin: And I think we'll be done before that this year, I do. I think we're getting close, is the thing. Because…
Sylvi: Okay, we're doing over-unders on Palisade versus Twilight Mirage, and I'm taking the over.
Ali: [laughing]
Austin: You're taking the over on— oh my god.
Sylvi: Well, you took the under so I want to be different.
Austin: Okay, yeah, I appreciate that. Yeah, I think we'll be under that. I think— I mean, we're definitely going to be over Partizan, [Sylvi: Yeah.] unless something wild happens. But we're kind of getting there in a way that's like…partly it's the dominoes are falling, right? [Ali: Mm-hm.] And partly it's the narrative is coming undone, right? Or the narrative, the stuff that I've been hiding is coming undone in some ways, right? 
You know, the Divine Arbitrage's hand has been played at this point, it's clear…it was always clear, maybe, that Arbitrage was not as simple as "I am a Frontier Syndicate Pillar?" You know? [Ali: Mm-hm.] But now the listener understands that Arbitrage has a long-term, big picture play? And it'd be easy to imagine that just falling apart. You know, the team in the downtime floated some ideas for what the next missions were, and some of them were really big swings that would effectively make the Pillars less Pillar-like in general, you know? Because of what the outcome could be. 
And so there's a world where, if y'all were like, let's try to wrap this up by 50, we could do it. [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] You know what I mean? I think…but I think two arcs and then a finale is probably, is probably what I would love to hit? But the answer's probably three, isn't it, it might be three arcs and a finale, I don't know. We'll see. 
Ali: [giggles]
Sylvi: Yeah…with Friends at the Table you always gotta add a little extra like 50%, [Ali: Uh-huh.] so three arcs sounds right. But I think—
Ali: Yeah. 
Austin: What I want to stop doing is introducing new primary elements, is where I'm at. You know what I mean? Okay.
Sylvi: I was literally about to say, it feels like we have all the pieces on the board, [Austin: Yes. Yes. Yes.] like we know every major player who's going to be involved, especially with the like…I feel like the last major introduction was the conspiracy that Eclectic's looking into? 
Austin: Yes.
Sylvi: And now that everything's kind of laid out, we just need to deal with it, [Austin: Yup.] as opposed to unearthing more.
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: Yeah. For sure. Um, yeah. 
Essential Orbital [00:34:25]
Ali: The mission of Arbitrage does remind me of a thing that I've been thinking about recently a lot, [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] which is that we almost didn't play Orbital? [laughs]
Austin: Yeah, it's wild.
Sylvi: [cross] Crazy.
Ali: And it's been foundational to Palisade.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: It's so important. Did we really almost not play Orbital? Oh, right, 'cause it was a bonus.
Ali: Yeah! We were going to skip it.
Austin: Yeah, 'cause I was like, I already kind of picked my game, you know. That was the thing, right, was that the Road to Palisade was like everybody gets a game, basically? [Ali: Mm-hm.] Like a pitch for a story and we're going to play that story out, that side story. And I already got mine, 'cause mine was, um…the first one was Hounds. And then I was like, well. But this game is good. I want to play this.
Ali: [laughs] 
Sylvi: You know what?
Austin: Really what it was, I wanted to play Orbital to begin with, but we weren't getting the Road going. I mean, as ridiculous as it sounds now, when you think like, oh my god, the Road— like, if you go back to counting the Road to Palisade as part of Palisade? We are at episode sixty something. [Sylvi: Yeah.] Which is why it feels like it's longer than Twilight Mirage. 'Cause it actually kind of is longer than Twilight Mirage. Right?
Ali: Yeah, uh-huh. 
Austin: If you count the Road.
Ali: What would Twilight Mirage have been if we had had a Road to it? [laughs]
Austin: Oh my god. That would be fucking— that would have been so sick. We should go back and do the Road to Twilight Mirage.
Ali: [deep sigh] 
Austin: And cover the 50,000 years in games.
Sylvi: Oh my god. 
Ali: [cross] Sure. Yeah. 
Austin: You know what I mean? And get more detail on the Divines that I made you make and that we barely spent any time with. You know?
Ali: Right. But Orbital especially has so many threads that go back to it that like, Austin, while you're here, and Sylvi, while you're here, like Cori is obviously…you know, the Devotion stuff all comes from that, so I'm curious if—
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Well. No. 'Cause it's the other way.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Is it—
Austin: You pitched me Devotion. We knew Devotion before we did Orbital. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Oooh. 
Austin: Orbital—
Sylvi: Devotion was like the first idea I had for Palisade, was like a Divine that could be something that is used just for like…I don't really want to say like pure reasons or whatever, but reasons that could help a community and has been changed into something that is now part of the conflict and part of the war. 
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: And so yeah, Devotion was something that we kind of went into…
Austin: [typing] When did we record Orbital? 
Sylvi: Oh, I don't know. But I do remember that like, we didn't go into it thinking that Devotion would show up in Orbital? And then the playbook for…one of the groups, like one of the— 'cause there's the social group playbooks in Orbital, just fit it really well.
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: Oh.
Sylvi: And we were like, oh, okay, I think you were straight up like, Sylvi, this is probably the time to introduce this. 
Austin: Yeah, I think by the time you, uh…yeah. I think, you messaged me on the 21st and said "have we had Devotion as a Divine?" And then we recorded this the 23rd. 
Ali: [giggles]
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: Two days later. [Ali: Oooooh.] And I was like, oh, okay. We hashed it out, right? We hashed out, here are my two ideas for Devotion? We ended up kind of picking both in the end, [Sylvi: Yeah.] and really leaned into…well. I'm looking at them now. Uh. 
Sylvi: [laughs] 
Austin: It's interesting. It's a little different, but whatever. And then I also then immediately sent you a screenshot of late Hunter x Hunter in our next big conversation? 
Ali: [laughing] Oh. 
Sylvi: Oh my god.
Austin: Was me sending you a picture from Hunter x Hunter and saying, "this is sooooo gay." [laughs]
Sylvi: [laughs]
Austin: And you said, "it's so gay and you for real you haven't even gotten to some of the gayest shit," and I said, "cannot wait." And then I sent you another image two days later and said, "absolutely cackling." Uh, anyway. Listen to Media Club Plus. It's great.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: It's my favorite podcast. 
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: [laughs hard] Sorry, I just looked at the screenshots. Yeah.
Austin: Uh-huh? You're so far away from this. You're so far, a lifetime. 
Sylvi: [cross] We are literally— uh, see you in a year and a half. 
Austin: Truly it's— it might be next year, you might move faster than you think. Once you get going, I don't know.
Sylvi: I mean, I might be thinking release schedule more than recording schedule.
Austin: Oh, that's true. That's actually true.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: Like release schedule? See you in at least a year and a half. [laughs] 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Yeah. Anyway, then yeah, in this conversation, you ask if you should just drop the name Devotion at this point, in the middle of the Orbital recordings. [Sylvi: Yeah.] So like, we knew what it was before we were— before that session started and I was like, all the stuff with C.T.H. Pasodoble, like all that stuff that we were trying to pull on was like, stuff that we— I guess we were feeling out what the cult was, but we didn't— [Sylvi: Yeah.] but we knew the broadest broad idea, right?
Ali: Mmm.
Sylvi: Yeah, I mean, I think it shows in that game itself when we try— we're not trying to make the cult immediately evil, you know?
Austin: Right. Right.
Sylvi: Like, you hear the words "mysterious cult on board the space station" and you're like, oh, these are the bad guys. And what we actually did was, they had a cookout, and yeah, there was some nefarious shit happening, [Austin: Oh yeah.] but for the most part they were like, "you guys wanna come hang out on our tree ship and have a barbecue?"
Austin: Yeah. It turns out, yeah, the Twilight Mirage just does it right, even evil cults, gotta have a good cookout. You know?
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: [giggles] 
Austin: But you're right, Ali, that game was such a huge finger on the— hand on the lever of what Palisade would become. Thematically, character-wise, the Devotion stuff, even like the core idea of the…do we or don't we get involved in this war? You know, like all of that stuff is all there already. You know? It was good, it's one of my favorite things we've done, in the last couple years at least, you know? I'm so glad we got around to playing it. 
Ali: Right, yeah! Well, I was curious—
Austin: [cross] And Mustard. And Arbitrage. Right, yeah, obviously.
Sylvi: Oh my god. 
Austin: And glint, and yeah.
Ali: [laughing] Yeah, I was curious, the reveal that Devotion was an idea in Sylvi's head before we played that game is illuminating, 'cause I was…I was curious of like, what about that setup was interesting enough to sort of relate Cori to it? And it was like, because [laughs]…because it's actually this deeper seed that we saw sprout there, which is really cool. But like also, Austin for you as a GM, just like how have you made the decisions on which threads to pull from there and when and…
Making GM Decisions [00:41:00]
Austin: [sighs] Yeah. Yeah, I tend to try to pull the threads that can hit every player, and not just one when I can, or one or two, you know what I mean? [Ali: Mm-hm.] So for instance, or like threads that are…threads that have the potential to be broader hooks versus threads that I'm personally interested in is also another part of this. 
So for instance, Cheal Pushy, the bartender at the Brink's whatever is probably not going to come back up? Cheal's great. I love Cheal. And like neither is 3T. The musician who I played, right? I love 3T, 3T got a bad ending, 3T really got "bad end" at the end of that arc, and that's it. I don't think I'm going to bring— like 3T maybe pops up in a side note, or an intro or something one day.
Ali: Mm-hm.
Sylvi: I was going to say…like an intro character, maybe. But.
Austin: Maybe. Right? But I'm not rushing to do that. Like in a real way he had his arc, [Ali: Yeah.] and I don't feel bad about that. 
Ali: 3T comes up every time you see his ex in Palisade, [Austin: Right.] and you think to yourself, "awww."
Austin: Yeah, exactly. Every time Saint Decario Dicario shows up, you're like, "that motherfucker." 
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: And even he doesn't come up that much, right?
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: But Arbitrage is a setting-wide threat, you know? And everyone can find a way to feel some sort of way about Arbitrage, you know? Arbitrage is a nightmare, Arbitrage had that scene with Thisbe last season? So like even Thisbe has a way in on Arbitrage at some point, you know? There's a lot of space for characters to feel a way about what Arbitrage wants to do to the world. 
The thing that's important that 3T was part of, is something that Devotion is also just part of, which is like, spreading the Mirage. The Mirage bomb stuff, right? And it's like, that could come back up? Right? That's in my deck of cards, you know? And that's in my deck of cards separate to 3T himself or any of the other particular characters who were involved in that plot. 
And so it's like I try to go board when I'm going to pull on stuff from a story like that? Because I don't want to, one? I don't want the listener or the players to be like, "who the fuck are you talking about?" [Ali: laughs] Like if I name-dropped one of the targets of Lament? Like Lament was going to go kill some guy and like they got away, and like, "remember that guy that Lament was going to kill and got away?" And everyone's like, "No? Who? Who are you talking about?" You know? 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: So I try to go broader, and then beyond that I try to like…find the things that are going to be good engines for a bunch of stuff, not just a single character. And there's times when I'll go the other way, 'cause it's just fun. But you know. I think with the Road to Palisade specifically we were also…we were also seeding things more than…along with discovering things, we were discovering some things and we were seeding other things.
Like Exanceaster March. Very clearly me being like, I think this is a character who could show up, depending on how this game goes. Let's open the door to seeing— or like, this is a character who's going to show up in some capacity. Will it be with the Bilateral Intercession or will it be a third party? You know, whatever.
Ali: Mm-hm. 
Austin: And so when March shows up in Upstairs & Downstairs, that is me being like, okay, let me seed this thing that I think is going to be important. You know? So, yeah. Orbital. Great. Would play more. Really funny that we went…like we started a game of Dream Askew five years ago, and then last year two of our best games were just Dream Askew, God and…uh, No Gods, No…No…[thoughtfully] No Gods…
Ali: No Masters.
Austin: No Masters? No, is that right? Is that the actual thing? No Dice, No Masters. Which is of course…
Ali: Ah. [laughs] Well, dice or gods, duh. 
Austin: Which is of course referencing the anarchist slogan, "No Gods, No Masters." But is not what the name of the game type is. That Avery…
Sylvi: No Gods, No Dice was less…punchy.
Austin: Less punchy, yeah yeah yeah. [laughs] But, yeah. Happy to— I think the road was really…you know, now that we're out of the Road [laughs]. When we were in the Road, it felt interminable. It went on so long. Even the games that I was really enjoying, right, were like, oh my god, I can't believe this is going to be a part three, you know? And it felt like we were dooming ourselves to be in it forever as we kept going…the premise is that everybody gets one, you know? 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Right.
Austin: And that's eight games minimum, and then I attached, you know, another one. So.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: Also on top of that we were streaming them. 
Austin: Right.
Sylvi: I think that, worth mentioning that those were all live streams, and that makes scheduling so much harder. 
Austin: It does, it does.
Ali: Uh-huh. 
Austin: It does. We sort of struggled with Lancer, but the nice thing about Lancer was it wasn't a live stream? And that helped a lot with that. 
Ali: Right, yeah.
Austin: I could not imagine having streamed that live, that would have sucked. 
Ali: Yeah, we did that. 
Austin: Mm-hm. 
Ali: It's weird to look back and be like, oh, we do things. [laughs] 
Austin: We do. We do do things.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: We're busy on this show.
Austin: Yeah. 
Ali: Changing formats and…planning things…
Austin: [cross] Yeah. Planning for future stuff and…
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: …banking recordings as we're doing right now. For things. That are coming, down the road. 
Teasing The Slow Knife [00:46:20]
Sylvi: Yeah! Hey!
Austin: Mm-hm?
Ali: Hi! 
Sylvi: Maybe a game by someone who worked on Orbital. Coming at some point.
Ali: Yes!
Austin: Ooo, that's true! It is!
Sylvi: Yeah!
Ali: Uh-huh. Speaking of Orbital…speaking of games, speaking of live streams— well that's not the live stream, this is our like Bluff City slot. 
Austin and Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Um, Sylvi, you're going to make your debut in the facilitator chair!
Sylvi: It's— yeah. I— you know what, at the time of recording, I have done that already and it was stressful but went great. 
Austin: Awww. I'm glad it went great. I'm so excited to listen to this. 
Sylvi: It's very fun. Um, I don't want to give away anything on the air.
Ali: Oh, okay.
Sylvi: But I did put a screenshot in the Patreon folder of at least one note that I believe Dre made?
Ali: [laughing] Oh, I did see that.
Austin:  I have to see this. Let's see here…da da da da da…
Sylvi: There is a character, like an actual lore note there too, but the man is the important part.
Ali: Uh-huh. 
Austin: Patreon…uh…wait, where is this at?
Ali: [cross] Was there something about lava there? Because it was like a second conversation before that I saw. 
Sylvi: Oh yeah, oh yeah. There's a lot of lava. [Ali: laughs] Hey. Everybody? We invented a new genre, that's definitely new. Yeah.
Austin: Oh ho ho.
Ali: [laughing hard]
Austin: Where did you put this?
Ali: In the Patreon. 
Sylvi: In the Patreon Discord? 
Austin: [cross] Oh, in the channel, not in the Drive folder.
Sylvi: [cross] Channel, yeah yeah yeah. No, not in the folder. Though I do need to take a screenshot of the playboard. I want to do that for each…
Austin: Oh, the playboard. Interesting. 
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: Oh, I see, I see, I see. [laughs hard] Oh, this is fun.  
Sylvi: Yeah, shoutout Dre for that one.
Austin: This is fun. This is exciting.
Ali: Yeah. Well, I mean, I don't wanna, if you don't wanna— if you want to keep this as a teaser, please.
Sylvi: Oh no, I can— we can be as explicit as you guys want. I'm happy to chat about it. 
Austin: Wait a second, we can't be as explicit as—
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: Okay, you know what I mean! 
Austin: [villainous laugh]
Sylvi: [laughs]
Ali: I swear, if we find out our Patreon has been deleted because of this episode. 
Austin: [laughing] Yeah, dude. 
Ali: Let's…yeah. 
Sylvi: There's no artistic nudity, don't worry! 
Ali: [laughs] Damn. 
Austin: Are there any "female-presenting breasts" or whatever the fuck it said?
Ali: [cross] Oh, yeah…
Sylvi: [cross] We've only done one session, I can't say.
Austin: Okay, okay. 
Ali: [giggles] Um…but for real, fuck Patreon. Anyway.
Austin: [cross] Uh-huh. 
Sylvi: Weird that this episode got tagged and then taken down, what the fuck?
Austin: [sighs] We just said the word "yuri" too many times.
Sylvi: That's definitely it.
Ali: Uh, yeah, that’s it, yeah.
Sylvi: We said "Sicario" too many times, weirdly enough. It was a copyright strike.
Austin and Ali: [laugh]
Ali: Anyway, Sylvi, what have you been up to? [laughs]
Sylvi: Yeah! Um, I feel like we could name drop the game, right?
Ali: [cross] Yeah.
Sylvi: [cross] This is Patreon…for the…
Ali: This is our sneak peek, yeah. 
Sylvi: Uh, yeah! So I have begun facilitating a game of The Slow Knife.
Austin: [in background] Woooo!
Sylvi: Which is by the same designer as Orbital. Jack Harrison?
Austin: [cross] That's right. 
Sylvi: Hold on, I need to— 
Austin: Jack Harrison is right. 
Sylvi: It is Jack Harrison? Okay. I wanted to make sure I got the last name correct.
Austin: Yep. 
Sylvi: With Dre, Art, and Keith, and it is going very well so far. Um, very excited for everyone to hear the weird world we've been creating. 
Ali: Oh my gosh. 
Sylvi: It's a new, it's a whole new setting!
Austin: I'm so hyped. 
Sylvi: Yeah. So look forward to it! Coming soon!
Ali: Yeah. I can't wait to listen. Any surprises? Any, you know…
Sylvi: Um… 
Ali: …frustrations with having to be the…[laughs] the person herding those specific cats?
Austin: Ooooh. 
Sylvi: No. I mean— like, straight up—
Austin: [cross] But yeah, who's in that game? Sorry?
Sylvi: Keith, Art, and Dre?
Austin: Oh my god, okay.
Ali: The most chaotic. 
Austin: Very chaotic. 
Sylvi: [cross] Yeah, but here's the thing, I'm— also I'm in that game, so.
Austin: Yeah, you are in that game. That's a fun group, we don't get this group. This is a group I feel like we don't ever get. 
Sylvi: No, it's— I mean…yeah, no, straight up. It's been really good, because we've all brought in—
Austin: Wait. Is this the ground game? From Twilight Mirage? 
Sylvi: Wait.
Ali: [gasps]
Sylvi: Wait, it is! Aww!
Austin: It is! 
Ali: Oh my god, is that true? 
Austin: It is.
Sylvi: [cross] I think so.
Austin: It's Grand Magnificent, it's Echo Reverie…
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: Yep.
Austin: It's Gig Kephart, and it's Even…Evensong. No, that's wrong.
Sylvi: Even Gardner.
Austin: Even Gardner. [laughs] Even Gardner. 
Ali: [giggles] Even Evensong. 
Sylvi: Wow. 
Austin: I just have the voice of Pearl Jam guy…what's Pearl Jam guy's name? 
Sylvi and Austin: [to the tune of "Even Flow" by Pearl Jam] "E-ven Song." 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Yeah, exactly.
Sylvi: Yeah, I got you. 
Austin: Yeah, thank you. 
Sylvi: I have definitely thought that to myself [Austin: Good. Good good good.] multiple times over the course of Palisade.
Austin: Eddie Vedder, that's his name. 
Sylvi: Ah, okay. 
Austin: Thank you very much for having my back.
Ali: [laughing sigh] Oh, god.
Sylvi: Oh, always. You know? This is what we do. This is what the show's all about. It's Friends at the Table. 
Wrestling is Yaoi and also Yuri [00:50:50]
Austin: I knew you would know it, of course, because it's Raven's…Raven's DDT [Sylvi: Yeah?] is the "Even Flow" DDT.
Sylvi: [cross] Oh, the "Even Flow" DDT, yeah, yeah, of course.
Austin: Yeah, of course. Uh-huh.
Sylvi: And I'm—
Ali: Who's Raven? 
Austin: [laughs hard]
Sylvi: Raven? The wrestler Raven? 
Austin: Have you ever seen Raven before? 
Ali: No. 
Sylvi: Oh…
Austin: Okay, I gotta find you peak WCW Raven.
Sylvi: Yeah, you gotta find good Raven, 'cause there's a lot of bad Raven out there.
Austin: There's so much bad Raven out there. 
Ali: [laughing] Okay.
Sylvi: But like…
Austin: [cross] So you don't know about the Flock?
Ali: No. 
Austin: [sighs] Okay. This is kind of post…this isn't the hair that I think of when I think of Raven these days? Or, at the time— here's the hair. This is the hair. This is the hair that Raven had during his debut. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: O-kay. Okay. [laughs]
Sylvi: No, it's like hot grunge guy who's an extreme wrestler? [Austin: Yeah.] It's good.
Austin: The Flock…oh my god, this incredible image. My man in the back in just the striped shirt? [laughs]
Ali: [laughs hard]
Austin: With the like dad grin? Like he's hanging out with a hockey team?
Sylvi: [laughs] Holy fuck.
Ali: Is that their designated driver, who is that guy? [laughs]
Austin: I don't know. 
Sylvi: [laughing] I mean…
Austin: It might be. I don't know who that is.
Sylvi: You know who I think that…is that Ted Turner?
Austin: I don't think that's Ted Turner.
Sylvi: No? I don't know what Ted Turner looks like other than a mustache and bald.
Austin: [cross] You know, though? Ted Turner in the 90s…
Sylvi: So that's why I was like, is that…
Austin: No, I think that he already had grey hair. I can see what you're seeing.
Sylvi: Okay.
Austin: I can see how you got there.
Ali: I love the um…flannel shirt tied around the waist. 
Austin: Oh, yeah. That's—
Ali: Iconic.
Austin: Yeah yeah yeah. Yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Ali: Ages this image perfectly. 
Austin: That's the thing. And then at the time, the thing about the WCW is, uh, that they just stole music? 
Ali: Oh!
Sylvi: Or ECW did. 
Austin: Huh? 
Sylvi: Or did you— oh, wait. 
Austin: No! Well, they didn't— sorry. 
Sylvi: Oh, shit.
Austin: So, the ECW stole music. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: WCW had an internal songwriter who took popular songs and gave them the…
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: ...the Vanilla Ice, "It's different. Their song goes dun-dun-dun-dun-dun-dun-dun and mine goes dun-dun-dun-dun-dun-dun-dun-DUN and that makes it different." And that's what they did for like all of their theme music? So you go ahead and hit play on this and tell me this isn't just a Nirvana song.
Ali: Can we do this together? Can we do a count in?
Austin: Yeah yeah yeah. Absolutely. 
Sylvi: Absolutely!
Ali: Okay. 
Austin: Three, two, one, go.
[audio of Raven's WCW theme plays]
Sylvi: [laughs hard]
Ali: Wow. [laughs]
Austin: [laughs hard]
Sylvi: I do…I do need to say that you said "they had a guy." That guy was the "Mouth of the South" Jimmy Hart, Hulk Hogan's long-time manager.
Austin: It was Jimmy Hart, yeah.
Sylvi: Worth mentioning. 
Austin: Yes. Uh uh? Yes. Yes. It's just—
Sylvi: Yeah, this is just "Come As You Are."
Austin: It's just "Come As You Are!"
Ali: [laughing]
Sylvi: Oh, the comments on this are so funny, because a guy says, "has a Pearl Jam feel to it." 
Austin: [laughs hard] That's so funny. One day you should just go through…
Sylvi: It's so good. 
Austin: …WCW theme songs, yep, good, I'm glad it autocompletes to "rip-offs."
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Uh, because there's a bunch of them out there and they're very funny. So. Uh, anyway.
Ali: This is great.
Sylvi: Yeah, I know.
Ali: As far as like, "is that Raven's music?" That's a great…
Austin: Yeah! Right, exactly. 
Sylvi: Oh, yeah. 
Ali: That's a great one. 
Austin: Oh. Was it…what did…oh, yeah, here we go. DDP is another one we gotta… 
Sylvi: Oh my god, DDP's one is blatant. 
Austin: Okay. Get ready. Get ready to count me in on DDP here.
Ali: Okay.
Sylvi: Yeah. Okay, wait. Okay, I'm ready. 
Austin: And also 'cause you're going to get to hear DDP's sl— like his motto. [Ali: laughs] His one-liner shows up in this song, so get ready.  
Ali: Okay!
Sylvi: Oh, man. 
Ali: Three, two, one, go.
[audio of DDP's WCW theme plays]
Cast: [laughs hard]
Ali: Oh, come— [laughs]
Austin: Yes! Self High-Five!
Sylvi: Yeah! 
Cast: [laughing]
Ali: What the fuck? 
Austin: You could do— here, he does just say DDP. "Too cool."
Sylvi: You, um…you've seen the clip of Dave Grohl hearing this, right? 
Austin: No! 
Sylvi: Okay, hold on, I need to find that.
Austin: Please!
Ali: Oh my god, please.
Austin: Oh my god. Can you imagine, though, like how hype it would be to be at the arena when this comes on and DDP— this is like— the thing that I love about it is it's the most carny shit. It's the last time wrestling was real? You know? 
Ali: [laughs] Yeah, oh my god, that's hilarious. 
Austin: It's so funny. 
Ali: And I—
Austin: [cross] Yeah, please find me this clip. Go ahead.
Sylvi: I'm…yeah, I'm looking.
Ali: I love how the like [imitating guitar] "dew new" is just like a midi synthesizer [Austin: Uh-huh! Yep!] instead of whatever [laughing] anyone actually uses, like, "that's a different song!"
Austin: Yep!
Ali: Different instruments! 
Austin: Different instruments, you can't sue me! It's different! 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: And again, the thing that's so fucked up is like, Ted Turner owned this. You know what I mean? It was not like they didn't have money. They just weren't like— "why  pay money when you can get close enough? Jimmy's got a keyboard!" You know? 
Ali: You know they could just pay the guy to— yeah.
Austin: Mm-hm? 
Ali: Why pay Nirvana when I have this guy right here?
Austin: Exactly! 
Ali: [sighs]
Sylvi: I think I got things mixed up and unfortunately there's not a clip of him hearing it? There is a…they were on an MTV segment together [Austin: Oh my god.] and I think DDP talked about how Dave Grohl was upset with it. What's really great is that this MTV segment? Uh, it's a Raven and DDP feud. [Austin: Oh, amazing.] So both guys with the Nirvana rip-off themes.
Ali: [giggles]
Austin: Incredible.
Sylvi: In a segment with…it was Foo Fighters era, I believe.  
Ali: Sure sure sure.
Sylvi: Well, it would have had to have been. [laughs]
Austin: Yeah. He says, I found a quote, and he says, "Jimmy Hart and I did the song together and Jimmy's a genius. I felt that 'Smells Like Teen Spirit' was the sound of the 90s, that was awesome for me. Dave Grohl was hot 'cause that was like a rip-off of their music."
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Uh, "He heard it and was like 'WCW owes us money.' We did just enough in terms of changing the notes so it was it but it wasn't." I love wrestlers. 
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: It's so…this shit's great. 
Austin: Speaking of yaoi. Uh.
Sylvi: Oh, yeah. Uh, speaking of yaoi, everybody go watch that Swerve Strickland/Adam Page match. 
Austin: Oh my god.
Ali: Oh my god, and watch— oh my god. And then go to their instagrams afterwards where they're just like posting horny things about each other [Sylvi: Yeah.] like, "you'll always be a part of me?"
Austin: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: There's…that man drank that man's blood. 
Ali: Yeah…
Austin: Phew!
Ali: And spit it into the air.
Sylvi: And lost. [laughs]
Austin: Uh-huh? 
Ali: [sighs]
Sylvi: Yeah. Yeah? Wrestling's good sometimes. Two wild beasts.
Austin: It's real solidarity— two wild beasts. 
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: Glaring at each other.
Austin: It's real solidarity 'cause now they can't donate blood for a year, either. 
Ali: Wow. [laughs]
Sylvi: Ayyyyy. Adam Page, honorary queer, Swerve, congratulations! [laughs]
Austin: [laughs] Um. Anyway. Uhhh? I think wrestling's a part of this, too. If I'm being honest? 
Ali: Yes.
Sylvi: Oh! Absolutely. 
Austin: Like part of the reason Elle and Cori work, we…wrestling also taught us certain rhythms of rivalry, you know? And horny rivalry. [Sylvi: Uh-huh?] There's a real rhythm to the build, and then the fight, and then the rematch, and you know, the cutting promos on each other. It's important. You know? 
Sylvi: It's— genuinely, you need to build the heat. And I didn't mean that in a wrestling way, [Austin: Oh!] but here we are!
Austin: Here we are. 
Sylvi: Um…like, yeah. Tension is super important for any rivalry. 
Austin: Or, I think, you know, maybe more importantly, when you have collaborators it's good to have shared touchstones? [Sylvi: Yes.] And know that you can rely on the other one to have that same— it's like two jazz musicians playing together who know the same standards and the same like, oh, okay, we're switching over into this time signature, I got it. And we can play like this. [Sylvi: Mm-hm?] Whereas if you are playing with someone who has never played that genre before, they might not know the same stuff that you're playing with. Um, and I think that's why it works so well, is I think that we have a lot of shared, you know, touchstones on this stuff and…we're able to pull on that in a way that's like, easy. 
Sylvi: Oh. Yeah. I mean, just getting back to the specifics of the Elle/Cori rivalry, one of those moments where I really felt like we were playing jazz and we picked each other up really well was when you were like, "oh, no, there's no sound in this dust chasm."
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: Oh, yeah! Yes!
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: "They can't say anything to each other." And I was like, hell yeah, they can't, that makes it so much better.
Austin: Yes! That's it, again.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: It's the desire and the inability and then the working to close that gap eventually. Right? And that is, that is…that's it. Frankly. 
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: You know? That's the erotic. Frankly.
Sylvi: Yup!
Ali: I also do love the spaces that Armour Astir specifically gives the both of you to play in, because there are these specific…we touched on this before, but this "in the ring" mode versus the downtime mode. 
Austin: Yeah. Yeah.
Ali: So you get to see these very two different versions of their relationship? 
Austin: Mm-hm.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Ali: Um. It's a good game.
Austin: You know, it was really…six months ago I would have bet we would have gotten our first…whatever the name of that…the downtime game I did with Connadine and Arbitrage?
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: From Armour Astir with Elle and Cori, but we did not.
Sylvi: Oh!
Austin: Sorry, we did…I guess, sorry, that's not true, 'cause that conflict scene was called "A Fateful Encounter." But the…the actual downtime scene is "Your Quarters or Mine." Which, you know? It's out there? You know?
Sylvi: God. Damn.
Ali: Oooooh. 
Austin: Who could say? 
Sylvi: Okay. 
Austin: Mm-hm?
Ali: We should add that scene to our sheet [Austin: We should.] if you're considering that book part of our…our player's…yeah.
Austin: [cross] Yeah, we should add to it, we should, we should.
Ali: Um. God.
Sylvi: Oh, man.
Austin: You know, it's one of those things where it's like, the party…I don't, I mean, yeah, we should just add it. We should just add it.
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: There's also extended rival things in this book that we have not used at all, so we should look at these, also. I'll relink this in our Discord and we can decide what we want to add into the main pages.
Ali: Yeah, how long have you been sitting that on the back of the stove, waiting to be like…
Sylvi: [laughs]
Ali: Hey.
Austin: I mean, I linked it. 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: I linked it in March. And everyone…
Ali: [cross] Okay, fair.
Austin: And Sylvi said "omg" and that was the only response we got, I got to it. So.
Ali: [quietly] Fair.
Sylvi: Yeah, I've…you know? It's been…it's been a long year. 
Austin: [laughs] Uh-huh. 
Ali: Uh-huh? Yeah…and there's so many books.
Austin: I know. I know.
Ali: And there's so many moves. [laughs]
Austin: There are so many moves, there's so many books, and so many rules. And we get some of them wrong sometimes but we're doing our best.
Ali: Oh, we sure do. We sure do.
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. 
Ali: [sighs] 
Austin: Alright.
A Real Teaser of The Slow Knife [01:01:15]
Ali: Oh, but I— did we…we didn't talk about like the pitch of Slow Knife at all. Do you want to speak about like the system at all?
Austin: [cross] Oh yeah, no, what is the pitch of Slow Knife?
Sylvi: [cross] Oh! 
Austin: God, we got way off. How the fuck— I'm sorry.
Ali: [laughing] No, it's okay.
Sylvi: No, you're— hey. Hey. You know what? We're doing great.
Ali: Uh-huh.
Austin: [sighs] We're doing alright.
Sylvi: This has been a great podcast we've recorded. 
Ali: Yeah, no.
Sylvi: We listened to "Self High-Five" by DDP.
Austin: We sure— yep, that's right!
Ali: I cannot believe…[laughs]
Sylvi: And I'm feeling positive about it. Um, yeah. The Slow Knife is the game that is built around…it's a collaborative story building game, so there's no GM. Otherwise I'd…I would not start by facilitating a GMed game, if I was facilitating on Friends at the Table, you know?
Austin: [cross] You would be great. You would do fantastic. 
Sylvi: I got to work up to it. Someday. Um, yeah? I got ideas.
Austin: One day. Yeah. 
Sylvi: Um. But uh, what we're doing is, it's…the way the game works is every— it's two to four players, we're doing it with a full table. Every character makes a conspirator? And then— every player makes a conspirator as their main character. There's a shared protagonist called "The Knife," who is a person that our conspirators have fucked over. And is coming for revenge. Um, and it's like this long— hence the name, this like slow burn revenge story over four acts, where eventually our conspirators get what's coming to them, and the Knife gets their revenge. Um. So if you're looking forward to Dre, Art, Keith, and I playing basically Disney villains, [Ali: laughs] who are going to get what's coming to them? Um. Look forward to it.
Austin: That is very fun. This is very…
Sylvi: That's like not— I don't know if the characters are Disney villains yet, [Austin: Okay.] spoiler alert, the first session of a Friends at the Table game went a little long? [Austin: Oooh.] So we mostly did world building? 
Ali: [laughs hard]
Sylvi: However, uh…we definitely talked about how early Disney animated film villains were kind of like the tone that the game recommends going for, that like high camp baddies. 
Ali: Mm-hm.
Sylvi: Um. Yeah. Also, you know…there's some volcanoes involved, that's a little teaser for you. 
Ali: [laughs] Great. Great.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: Love it. I'm so excited. 
Ali: More homoeroticism, just villainous this time.
Sylvi: Oh. We—
Austin: Oh, absolutely.
Sylvi: We've already got…we've already got some, don't worry.
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Good. I'm glad. Necessary.
Sylvi: First thing we did was be like— like one of the questions is, "who is the most important to the Knife" and we covered that.
Ali: Ooooh.
Austin: Oooh. That's great. That's fantastic. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: The Knife is the one who's going to kill you, right?
Ali: Uh-huh.
Sylvi: Yeah, the Knife is our protagonist who is, uh…is gonna…
Austin: Incredible.
Sylvi: …is gonna get us. I'd give the name, but that is a point in the episode that I think we come to very well, and I don't want people to hear that.
Ali: Oh, yeah. 
Austin: Oh yeah, that's too far. Yeah yeah yeah.
Ali: Uh-huh. [laughs]
Protecting the Business [01:04:05]
Austin: Protect the business, etc. 
Sylvi: Gotta! Gotta. You know?
Austin: Which is a wrestling term, by the way. I've seen people not understand what "protect the business" means because why would they. Like, that's not…uh, protecting the business is a classic carny wrestling thing, right?
Sylvi: Mm-hm.
Austin: Where it's like, the reason you keep kayfabe, the reason you like pretend that you are a wrestler all the time, that you are the character you play as, is to protect the business. [Ali: Mmmm.] Or the reason why you don't make your superstar who has the championship belt tap out to a…like submit to a submission hold, is 'cause it makes them look weak? And if they look weak you're not going to sell t-shirts. [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] And you're not going to convincingly tell stories about them, because it's like, wait a second. Roman Reigns is supposed to be this big tough guy and yet he submitted to this hold that like doesn't make anybody submit. Or it makes the down card, regular wrestler submit but doesn't make superstars submit. 
Sylvi: [laughs quietly]
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: So now he looks weaker and it's going to be harder to sell him as a big tough guy. 
Ali: Right.
Austin: And so you protect the business by like letting him get out of that, and then…you know, you have to hit the finisher twice on him, you know what I mean?
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: You might still beat him, but you gotta do it— you gotta really sell that you've done, you've gone above and beyond, you know?
Ali: Mm-hm. 
Austin: So when I say…when I say like, oh…you know…
Sylvi: Protect the business. 
Austin: Protect the business, don't no-sell this. Don't—
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: Don't no-sell that this is…like, yes. It's hard to play a character who has, you know, infinite charisma. But we're supposed to believe this character has infinite charisma. I'm doing my best over here. Protect the business and like, give in a little— let your character give in to a little astonishment a little bit, you know?
Sylvi: Yeah!
Ali: Right, yeah yeah yeah. 
Austin: So.
Ali: Um, while we're going over wrestling terms. [laughs] Can…
Austin: Yes.
Ali: What is…what is "going into business for yourself" mean in that context? Beyond like, going off script?
Austin: It—
Sylvi: Oh…
Ali: [giggles]
Austin: Sylvi, do you wanna?
Sylvi: It can mean a couple different things.
Austin: It can, yeah.
Ali: [laughs] Okay. 
Sylvi: Sometimes people say, "oh, he's going into business for himself" in that he…for example, if someone kicks out of a pin that they were supposed to be pinned by? [Ali: Mmm.] That would be going into business for yourself, [Austin: Uh-huh.] you're changing the finish to a match? I think literally this happens in our Bluff City wrestling game. [Austin: Uh-huh.] I think I use a move [Ali: Oooh.] and go into business for myself to win the championship.
Austin: Yep. Yep. 
Ali: Oh, yeah!
Austin: [cross] Or if you simply do the thing that I just said not to do, right, which is like, you get hit with the superkick and then you stand back up and that wasn't scripted. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: 'Cause it makes the superkick look shitty. Do you know what I mean? 
Ali: Right. Yeah yeah yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah. There's different…there's a lot of different variations to it, but in general terms it is basically being a shitty wrestling partner to the other person you're trying to put a match on with. [Austin: Yeah.] Not following what you guys agreed upon? Or making them look bad on purpose because you don't want to lose to them.
Austin: And then there's what you do on the mic. Which is, I'm supposed to cut a promo about how "you can't be trusted because you betrayed your own tag partner a month ago and the people around you better be careful," and instead what I say is, "you know, you cost me $700,000 in this business deal."
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: And like, oh my god, wait a second, that's real. And, and…or I say something completely unrelated about another guy, right? And I'm just, I'm going into business for myself and like, [Sylvi: Yeah.] talking shit that I really truly have with somebody, you know?
Ali: Mm-hm. Mmm.
Austin: And going off script, this is the, this is the…this term got used a lot earlier this year. Uh, during the AEW scrum where CM Punk [Sylvi: Oooh, yeah.] went all out on, uhhhhh…god, who the fuck was he talking about? Was that Colt Cabana, was that—
Sylvi: [cross] He got in a fight with the Young Bucks?
Austin: [cross] Right, and then he got in a fight— right, yeah yeah yeah. 
Sylvi: [cross] And Colt Cabana…
Austin: Uh-huh. 
Ali: It was mainly Hangman Page. 
Austin: Was it? Okay. Sure. 
Sylvi: Wha? Yeah.
Ali: Just to bring everybody, [laughs] all the listeners up to speed on this.
Austin: Oh my god.
Ali: There was a situation where CM Punk had a feud with Hangman Page, [Austin: Right.] And then Hangman Page, um…supposedly "went into business by himself" quote unquote, by being like, "you talk all this shit about workers but like nobody backstage likes you" or something like that.
Austin: Right. 
Sylvi: The implication being that CM Punk got someone fired as well.
Ali: Right. Yeah yeah yeah. 
Austin: Right.
Ali: And then after…[laughing] after this big momentous occasion of winning the belt in Chicago, which is CM Punk's hometown, CM Punk during his backstage interview, instead of being like, "I love this company, and I'm happy to have this belt."
Austin: "I can't wait to fight MJF."
Ali: [laughs hard]
Sylvi: [in a deep voice] "This place is run by fucking children. I'm eating a muffin so my voice is really deep for some reason." [in normal voice] That was my favorite part of it, was that his voice was just super deep. 
Austin: [cross] It's so funny. And we know that muffin— like it's one of those prepackaged bag muffins [Sylvi: Oh, yeah.] that's like weirdly sweet and chemically? Ugh.
Ali: No no no, he name dropped the muffin company.
Austin: Oh, did he?
Sylvi: Oh, okay.
Ali: It's like a bakery in Chicago. So, yeah.
Austin: Okay.
Sylvi: That makes sense with him. Yeah.
Austin: [cross] Okay, yeah, that makes more sense. 
Ali: [laughs] But yeah, so that happened, and everybody lost their minds for a little while. And still are.
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah, there was a fight? A guy bit a guy.
Ali: Uh-huh. 
Austin: Mm-hm.
Sylvi: If you Google "brawl out" you'll find a bunch of information about it. It's really funny. Um.
Ali: Yes. Yes. Uh-huh. Mm-hm. [laughs]
Austin: Yeah. [sighs] God.
Ali: Glad we could educate today on what is yuri and what is "brawl out." [laughs]
Austin: [cross] I can't believe we came here to talk about yuri and now we're— yeah, uh-huh?
Sylvi: Uh, you can't— sorry, you brought me on this episode.
Austin: [cross] Everybody hit "play" and thought that what we were going to do is talk about Gundam.
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: And then we— 
Sylvi: Hey. 
Ali: Sure.
Austin: Uh-huh?
Sylvi: If you like the tension that comes with yuri, [Austin: Mm-hm.] maybe give wrestling a try sometime.
Ali: You know what? [laughs]
Sylvi: There's a lot of it there.
Austin: Uh-huh. It's true. It's simply true.
Sylvi: There's also old man yaoi. 
Ali: Yes.
Sylvi: There's all sorts of things. 
Austin: Mm-hm?
Sylvi: Um…straight up though, I think it makes sense that we talked about this stuff, 'cause—
Austin: I do, too. No no no, this is. Yeah.
Sylvi: We definitely have a weird like face/heel dynamic with Cori and Elle.
Austin: A hundred percent.
Ali: Oh, that's true!
Sylvi: Like there really is a, um…a lot you can compare to the rivalries in something like wrestling to the rivalries in the tabletop games we play.
Austin: Yeah, I mean, I think that that's true, and I also just think that like, that is what we're pulling on more than like, "Witch from Mercury," like, do you know what I mean?
Sylvi: Yeah. Absolutely. 
Austin: Like, I don't think— you know, we're obviously in the mecha genre, and we're pulling on mecha stuff in framing and in, you know…Elle did a full on anime…"nothing personal, kid" teleport behind Cori. Right?
Sylvi: It was sick as hell.
Austin: And it was sick as hell, right? So it's like, it's not not there. But like, the characters of— I guess Cori has some like…protagonist teen energy [Sylvi: Yeah.] in some ways. And obviously we're pulling on some of that stuff, right, with Elle, too. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: But it isn't art, the way you and I have not— we're not sending each other like, those references. We're not sending any references at all at this point, but like we're just pulling on what we have. So.
Sylvi: I mean, worth mentioning because you do bring up "Witch from Mercury," that Suletta was sort of an influence [Austin: Sure. That makes sense.] on Cori in a lot of ways. The more the, um…I had the idea for the parental relationship that Cori had before that started airing, I do need to say that?
Austin: Sure. 
Sylvi: Even though she did— I did end up making "failman divorced Prospera." 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Uh-huh? That's true. 
Sylvi: But uh, the big thing I wanted to do when I watched that was the scene where Suletta like, is reaching her hand out to Miorine and the blood is covering it and like…
Austin: Yeah, in that like first core of— yeah yeah yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah. I was like, they have not— at the time, the show is over now, and they do more with that, but at the time I was like, they hadn't really leaned into the dark militarized aspect of [Austin: Yeah.] Suletta's entire life? And I was like, that would be fun to play with. 
Austin: Mm-hm. Yeah.
Sylvi: For me. I'm taking this toy. 
Austin: I think— I was never thinking of her father as being Prospera-like, because of—
Sylvi: He's not.
Austin: Yeah, no, he's another cog in a machine, right? [Sylvi: Yeah.] He's another worker, he's just another guy in the Devotion cult, you know? He's not the head guy.
Sylvi: [cross] He's a middle manager.
Austin: To keep falling into wrestling terms. Right, yeah, exactly, yeah.
Sylvi: You were going to say mid-carder?
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Yeah, he's a mid-carder, exactly.
Sylvi: He's the Cody Rhodes of Palisade.
Austin: Wow. Wow.
Ali: Wow. 
Austin: Wow.
Sylvi: Have you never seen that tweet where someone says to Cody, "you're my favorite mid-carder" [Austin: Holy shit.] and he goes, "wow" and he's like, "I said you were my favorite."
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: That's incredible. God.
Sylvi: Yeah. It's really good, I think about it every time I see him. But no, you're right, him being more of a middle manager makes him a worse person in a weird way.
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvi: The fact that he is putting his daughter through this shit for bureaucracy. [Austin: Right. Right. Yeah.] and for like, a promotion if anything…makes him like, I don't know, more of a rat than Prospera ever was. 
Ali: Mm-hm.
Austin: Oh, for sure.
Sylvi: Prospera, also, not a good person, by the way. Like…
Austin: [cross] Oh, no. But much more ambitious than…than Diesel. Griesel? Griesel.
Sylvi: Yes, has— Griesel.
Austin: Griesel. 
Sylvi: Griesel, yeah.
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: [sighs] Big Daddy Cool. 
Sylvi: Big Daddy Cool Griesel, yeah! 
Love for the Blue Channel [01:13:45]
Ali: I do…the thought of like, Cori as this mech protagonist though is interesting 'cause like, Sylvi, the way that you've been balancing her naivete [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] versus the like reality of the setting has been really interesting? Um, and I'm curious of how that's been for you, in terms of like, as Cori's making this slow change and cursing more, quote unquote. And balancing like…[laughs]
Sylvi: [cross] It's been so fun. 
Ali: Go on, yeah.
Sylvi: Like, it's just…because I…the thing that I did that I'm so happy that I did, was because she has been submerged in this militarized version of her faith from basically day one? That I get to— but also has been living this very sheltered experience in this conclave on Palisade? I get to kind of have my cake and eat it too, where like, in terms of…sort of like, social maturity and understanding how things operate within a military structure, she still doesn't really like actually have the practical experience to really, um…like navigate those spaces like a quote "adult" would?
Austin: Mm-hm.
Sylvi: I mean, to be fair, we've seen how Brnine does, so like.
Ali: [laughing] Exactly. 
Sylvi: You know. That's also a very fun contrast? But um…then I get to play her as being like, oh no, she's a very capable pilot, she is absolutely capable of fighting in this war and killing people, like causing harm and defending people, all that sort of stuff. But like, having someone learn about the world through that lens has been really fun to play? 
Ali: Mm.
Sylvi: We got some of it that first down time when she sees the remains, basically, of that pilot she killed? And that— like, it wasn't a huge moment, just seeing the blood on the ground, but for me that was like, okay. And now I need to lean into the fact that she is just realizing that people will die in this war and that it isn't just bad guys versus good guys. Um…yeah. I don't know. I take a lot of— shoutout to my homeschooled friends, I did definitely take some inspiration from stories you guys have told me about other homeschooled kids?
Austin: [laughs quietly]
Ali: Uh-huh? 
Sylvi: Um…you know, stuff like that. I mean, I was also a real sheltered kid, so I brought some of that in. And then…you know, it's just been pushing a little boulder and watching it roll downhill since then. [Ali: laughs] Is basically been how I've been playing her. 
Ali: Oh, it's been so fun.
Austin: It's been great. 
Ali: Cori's been such a good character.
Sylvi: Thank you!
Ali: [cross] Especially with the rest of the Blue Channel, just…[laughs]
Austin: [cross] [murmuring agreement]
Sylvi: I love the Blue Channel so much, like when Cori's doing that, she's also speaking for me sometimes? 
Austin and Ali: [laugh]
Sylvi: Like, there is a little bit of bleed where I'm like, I don't know if I— like, I love these guys, but is that just because I'm constantly playing as "I love these guys?" And I'm like, no. No, I roll with Thisbe. [Ali: Mm-hm.] That's my captain. I love Figure. They're great. 
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: It's been a blast, it's one of my favorite crews. It's so funny, and I know, maybe we've talked about this a bunch on these, I'm not sure. [Sylvi: Mm-hm.] But uh…coming off of Sangfielle where it felt like no one liked each other even a little bit? 
Sylvi: [laughs]
Ali: [intake of breath]
Austin: Or like, they were coworkers who sometimes got along. They were coworkers who went out to lunch once a week, [Sylvi: Yeah.] to like, deep "have each other's back, we are a family on this ship," like…gang of weirdos, you know, crew of weirdos, is just so…
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: We have movie nights!
Austin: You have movie nights, it's so different, you know? Big fan.
Sylvi: Yeah. It's…I think something…I think we came into this season feeling like, okay, Sangfielle, all our characters like, they had friendly moments? But like, that season literally ended with, and spoilers if you haven't listened to it yet, but go listen to it, literally ended with Chine getting murdered by Lyke? 
Ali: Mmm.
Sylvi: Not literally, but that was the last group session, I think, and then we went into the…
Ali: Oh, yeah. 
Sylvi: What was the name of the game we played that we did the each individual sessions? I can't remember specifically. It was like a card-based game. Um…anyway. The last thing that happened as a group was the fairground catastrophe with Chine and all that stuff, and I think coming out of that everyone was like, okay, we need to be Friends at the Table again.
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Mm, yeah. Whoof.
Sylvi: We need to be…we need to be homies again. 
Austin: She spittin'.
Sylvi: In part— listen, it was fun being a total bitch in that season, for the first half and then just coming in as a little weirdo? But it definitely was like, oh, it's so much harder to like, find footing with…with these characters. And I think part of that is a mechanical thing, [Austin: Yeah…] like there's no bond system in, um…Heart. I almost called it Spire, which is the one we didn't play.
Austin: That's the other one, the one we did not do, yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Sylvi: And I think that that's helped a lot, but yeah. Shoutout to the Blue Channel, I think—
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: [cross] God, shoutout.
Sylvi: —movie night, uh, real clutch, real clutch downtime scene. Uh, been thinking about that a lot, um…
Ali and Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah. Well, it's been interesting, 'cause I feel like with Hieron we had to grow into it, right? [Sylvi: Mm-hm] Where it was like this multiyear thing and you had to like, learn these relationship bonds over time to develop them? 
Austin: True…
Ali: Whereas with Palisade I think that we were…we were already going into this play as being like, we want this to be more positive, we want this to be like a revolutionary story about like, [Austin: Yep.] people coming together? But also for me, it's also tough because I…Brnine is an authority on the ship, um, [Austin: Mmm.] and I try to be careful about that as not…Brnine isn't the protagonist, obviously, but the…I do have the responsibility of setting some of the tone [Austin: Sure.] for what the mood on the ship is like? 
Sylvi: Mm-hm.
Ali: And I think that like, coming back to Brnine as this person who really cares about community and like, is really trying to reach out to people and see if they're okay and make sure that people are comfortable is like…is it just something that they're putting on? [Austin: Right.] Or learned over time, and doing both modes of that has been really fun. [laughs] And I think that it's good that we've had characters that have either been able to play into that or play out of it depending on…
Austin: [cross] Or play almost even against it sometimes. 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Ali: Yeah, uh-huh.
Austin: Totally, totally.  
Ali: So. 
Austin: Yeah.
Ali: Shoutouts.
Austin: Shoutouts. 
Sylvi: Shoutouts to the Blue Channel.
Ali: Shoutouts…[laughs]
Sylvi: Good crew over there. 
Final Plugs [01:21:25]
Ali: But yeah, I think that's going to do it for us this week, unless either of you have any final notes that you want to make? Or things to plug, or…
Austin: Excited to see more. Um, I'll plug, can I plug, is a plug allowed?
Ali: Please.
Sylvi: Yeah!
Austin: We are…we've wrapped up the first season of Shelved by Genre, [Ali: Ooh!] which is a podcast I've been doing with Michael Lutz and Cameron Kunzelman over on Ranged Touch. Um, that show is a show where we read literary…or not literary, genre fiction. Explicitly not literary fiction, although literary fiction is a genre, so maybe one day. Uh, read genre fiction, which is like a short word that means like, you know, fantasy, and sci-fi, and romance, and pirate books, and you know, stuff like— you know, genres. The genres? 
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: The stuff that doesn't count as like high art literary fiction? And we just finished Book of the New Sun, which is a really wild science fantasy series by Gene Wolfe. Uh, it was a blast, we read it in kind of big chunks. We read, like, twelve chapters an episode or something.
Ali: Oh.
Austin: It's four books and then there's a fifth book. It's like a four book set, and then four years later he wrote like a fifth book, right? Um, that was not necessary, but it's a good episode, we did a really good episode on that one book. And so that has wrapped up now, I think by the time this comes out, the last of those episodes will either be out or about to come out, and then we're going to do a Q&A episode. Then we're going to do a one-off episode on a Hallmark Christmas movie? 
Sylvi: Oh, let's gooooo. Oh my god!
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Called "Last Stop Christmas?" Um, which is, also a time travel movie? Sorry, "Next Stop Christmas." It's a time travel movie about a 2021…it takes place in 2021 at first? Where this doctor who has become kind of separated from her family, and her parents are divorced, and she's uh, you know, single, goes back in time to 2011 when everything came off the rails.
Sylvi: Oh, yeah. 
Austin: Thanks to a golden ticket provided to her by a mysterious train conductor played by Christopher Lloyd. [laughs]
Sylvi: [laughing] I was gonna ask if you knew who played that, yeah. That's crazy.
Austin: Christopher Lloyd, we watched— I watched it already, I'm very, I've seen it already.
Sylvi: [cross] You've seen it already? Okay, good. 
Austin: I've seen all the twists, it's a fucking nightmare, but it was a blast to watch. Um, you know, romance movies are often…this style of romance movie is already very like, um, "by moving to the big city I've ruined everything, I need to move back to my small town home," right? [Sylvi: Oh, yeah.] Like that's kind of like the gist of this whole genre? And like—
Sylvi: It's a trad genre.
Austin: It is a trad genre. This one makes it literal because you literally go back in time to fix things and change the way your life went. [Sylvi: Ugh.] And so, it's fascinating, fascinating, it was very fun to watch. And then next year we're going to kick off, we're reading all the Earthsea books and stories [Ali: Oh!] by Ursula K. Le Guin? [Sylvi: Let's go.] And those are a blast. Um, much lighter reading than the reading we just finished, and so if you're like, hey, I'd love to hear Austin talk about fantasy stuff, you can go do that. And or, [laughs] "Next Stop Christmas." 
Ali: [giggles]
Austin: [laughs] The Hallmark movie…
Sylvi: It's fantasy! 
Austin: It's fantasy!
Sylvi: It's fantastical!
Austin: Yeah! Yeah, of course. Again, you go back in time, you get on a weird train, it teleports you back in time. So yeah.
Ali: Wonderful.
Austin: Mm-hm. [pause] That's my plug.
Sylvi: The only thing I've got to plug is Media Club Plus. 
Ali: [whispering] Yes.
Sylvi: Please check it out if you haven't already. 
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvi: At the time of this recording, the last episode that went up was the one that Ali was on!
Ali: Mm-hm!
Sylvi: Where we talked about—
Austin: [cross] Let me just hit play and see if Ali's…
Keith: [via Media Club Plus recording]...it's like a cyborg visor…that gives her information slash…
Austin: [cross] Hmm.
Sylvi: [cross] No, that's Keith. 
Austin: And if you want to find out who has a cyborg visor that gives them information…
Ali: Yeah.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: You better listen to Media Club Plus. 
Ali: [quietly] Yes.
Sylvi: For people who are familiar with Hunter x Hunter but haven't been listening or like, waiting a bit to check us out, we are…just wrapped up the Zoldyck estate stuff, so starting…
Austin: Can I tell you something embarrassing? 
Sylvi: Yeah?
Austin: I think…I believe…that I didn't realize that a character was a Zoldyck my first time through. 
Sylvi: Wait, who?
Austin: Kalluto. 


Sylvi: Oh! You thought that they were part of the staff?
Austin: No no no, I knew that they were— I think that when I watched these episodes, I was like, Kalluto is the little brother, got it, great.
Sylvi: Yeah.
Austin: And then Kalluto shows up again in the rest of the show.
Sylvi: Oh, yeah.
Austin: And I think somewhere along the way I just forgot who the fuck that was, and I was like, oh yeah, this is just…this person is just hanging with this group of people now.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: Do you know what I mean? I'd completely forgotten that this is…like to the degree that it feels like I've been, I've been…like Berenstain Bears'ed. I've been, what's that shit called? 
Sylvi: That is…
Austin: Mandela Effect.
Sylvi: Mandela Effect? Yeah.
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: I don't remember this character at all. I do remember "new character joins this crew of people," [Sylvi: Yeah.] but I completely forgot that there was a Zoldyck connection between them. Um, so.
Sylvi: I gotta remember this for when we record those episodes. 
Austin: Please. Yeah. 
Sylvi: I gotta [laughs] bring up…
Austin: 'Cause I'm wondering if you will just pay more attention than me 'cause what I was doing at this point was watching the show while working, you know? 
Ali: Mm.
Sylvi: Oh, well, yeah.
Austin: And then, you know, there's a gap between when this arc and then when he shows back up. Right? So.
Ali: Mmm.
Sylvi: Well, yeah, I mean, my first time watching the show was, lockdown just started [Austin: Sure.] and I'm marathoning it with my boyfriend. [Austin: Sure. There you go.] So that shit got beamed into my brain multiple times over. 
Austin: [cross] Oh, yeah. There you go. I hit a point eventually where it was like, I have to actually just be watching this 'cause it's too important to me? But it was probably…it was after the Zoldyck family arc. It was probably the next arc.
Sylvi: Many such cases. Yeah.
Austin: So. You know. You're getting into some…
Sylvi: Which, we'll have an episode with you on in a few episodes…into that arc. 
Austin: [cross] Oh, sorry, you know what, it isn't that arc, it's the arc after that is what I'm talking about. Yeah yeah yeah. 
Sylvi: [cross] It's the arc after that, yeah, that makes sense, that makes a little more sense. 
Austin: I think I might come around for an important set of episodes there, too. 
Ali: Ooo.
Sylvi: Ooooo, exciting.
Austin: Something around someone developing a new technique, is all I will say. 
Ali: [giggles]
Sylvi: Oh, fuck yeah. Um, so yeah, if you want to check that out, go to mediaclub.plus. We also have some, uh…not going to be regular bonus episodes for the— we don't have plans to do like monthly Media Club Plus episodes, getting in front of that before I say this, but we do have a couple bonus episodes coming up on the Patreon. I think the first one might be December? Or is it January?
Ali: Yeah, I think so. I think, I have to talk with Jack about music stuff, I think?
Sylvi: Okay.
Austin: Oh, sure.
Ali: But I think in respect for the holidays and everybody being busy, instead of releasing Slow Knife this month, we're going to do the Media Club Plus for December, and then start Slow Knife in January? So look out for that. 
Sylvi: [cross] Yeah, and I think—
Ali: Y'all talk about Dragon Ball? 
Austin: Hell yeah. 
Sylvi: I think— I was going to say I think Keith has publicly mentioned that we talk about the Dragon Ball, um…ooo, I can pull up the episode numbers for people even.
Austin: Uh, Keith mentions them in a drop—
Sylvi: [cross] Oh, Keith mentions them? Good. 
Austin: —at the beginning of this episode, the current Media Club Plus.
Ali: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.
Sylvi: Then go listen to that!
Austin: So go listen to that.
Sylvi: You know? There's no reason you shouldn't be. 
Ali: Uh-huh. 
Austin: Agreed.
Sylvi: But yeah, we're talking about some Dragon Ball tournament arcs, it's very fun. Jack has no knowledge of Dragon Ball, really? [Austin: I'm so excited.] And because we weren't worried about spoiling them for like future stuff like we are with Hunter x Hunter, [Austin: Right.] there is so much just us being like, "hey, Jack. Here's this thing that happens in Dragon Ball Z. What do you think about that?"
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: And having our friend react to it. It's really fun!
Austin: [cross] That's beautiful. That's friendship. 
Sylvi: It was really fun. Yeah! No, it's— Media Club Plus has been so much fun to do, and I hope that comes through when people listen to it? And if you haven't, check it out. Please, please. Please?
Ali: Yeah.
Austin: I look forward to it every week. Or every other week, I guess, actually.
Sylvi: Hell yeah. Every two weeks, every other Tuesday. 
Austin: Every other Tuesday. 
[pause]
Sylvi: You know what they say, "see you next Tuesday!" 
Austin: Oh, that's what they're talking about, it’s Media Club Plus.
Sylvi: That's what they're talking about, Media Club Plus! 
Ali: Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Austin: I see. 
Sylvi: Yep! 
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: If you ever hear that, that's a reference to our show.
Ali: Yes. 
Austin: Wow.
Ali: Yes, exactly. 
Sylvi: [laughs]
Ali: Well, thank you both for joining me. This has been…
Sylvi: Thank you!
Ali: This has been an extremely informative episode of Gathering Information. So. [laughs]
Sylvi: So much gathered. So much info gathered. [Austin: Uh-huh? Yeah.] And then distributed to people.
Austin: If you left here with no new info, then you're an incredible person. [Ali: Uh-huh?] Then you were probably on this podcast secretly, somehow. Then you were the one traveling back in time ten years to fix your life, [Ali: Wow.] because you would have already had to have heard this. 
Ali: That's true. 
Sylvi: Oh! And if you want to read that interview that we talked a little bit about, [Austin: Yes.] just Google "Yuri Made Me Human," Iori Miyazawa, it's from 2019. It is the day before my birthday, from 2019, which is really funny?
Austin: [cross] Wow. 
Ali: [cross] Let's goooooo. 
Sylvi: Yeah, you know what? Yuri icons know.
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: Yuri icons know. Wow. God.
Sylvi: But yeah, I would give it a read. I think it's a really fun thing if you're interested in the genre, and wanna like, see the full quotes that we mentioned on here.
Ali: Mm-hm. 
Austin: I appreciate that interview a lot because it opened the door for, you know, men like me to say things about yuri without being shot in the street. So, you know, that's…
Ali: [laughs]
Sylvi: It's…yeah. I'm glad. 
Austin: Thank you.
Sylvi: Listen, it has done wonderful things for us. 
Austin: It's good. To be clear, I was doing yuri on this show well before that interview. 
Ali: Yes. Yes. Yeah yeah yeah. 
Sylvi: Oh, absolutely.
Austin: To be clear. 
Sylvi: But now you can talk about it.
Austin: Yuri is kind of foundational, you know, elements of this show, I think.
Ali: Yeah!
Austin: If we think— we didn't say that in this podcast, right? But like—
Sylvi: One of the foundational Hella-ments, if you will.
Ali: [laughs]
Austin: That's correct. A hundred percent. Yes. Since season one.
Ali: But even the like…the like Hieron creation story has yuri in it, right? Like there's…
Austin: Uh-huh?
Ali: Yeah. It's, it's…
Austin: I agree.
Ali: …foundational, is what I should say.
Sylvi: Yeah. 
Austin: It is foundational. Yep. Mm-hm?
Ali: Yeah. Well, thank you both. 
Austin: Alright.
Sylvi: Read yuri. 
Austin: On that note.
Ali: [laughing] Bye. 
Sylvi: Sorry. [laughing] Thank you!