Media Club Plus Bonus - Dragon Ball Pt 2
Transcriber: robotchangeling
Introduction        0
Episode 97 [0:19:21]        16
Lore [0:49:31]        43
Episode 98 [1:09:17]        64
Episode 99 [1:24:39]        79
Episode 100 [1:45:24]        93
Episode 101 [2:08:55]        117
Hunter × Hunter and Final Thoughts [2:33:43]        141
Introduction
[“The Boy in Green” by Jack de Quidt begins playing]
Keith: Welcome to Bonus Media Club Plus, a bonus podcast about diving into the media that interests us and the stories that excite us. As always, we are brought to you by Friends at the Table. This bonus, we're watching 1986’s Dragon Ball, based on the manga by Akira Toriyama. [song ends] Last time we met, we watched the very beginning of season seven, the Tien Shinhan saga, where we see Goku making his way towards the World Martial Arts Tournament for the second time, getting there, meeting Tien, getting the whole backstory with, uh…actually, we don't get a ton of backstory with Crane and the Crane School, Master Roshi’s rivals. We see the fight between Tien Shinhan and Master Roshi and with Roshi as Jackie Chun forfeiting the match, saying, you know, “You're so strong that I don't need to be here to test my students anymore.” And then we jumped into the finals in this episode, with Goku versus Tien. Tien is extremely strong. This is, like, the most— probably the most intense fight in a Dragon Ball arc thus far. It’s basically five episodes of fighting. Like, the second half of one and the second half of another, so like four full episodes worth is fighting.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: It’s long. It’s fun. There’s a lot of things that happen in it. Let’s talk about it. 
Jack: [sighs] Wow.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Wow, yeah!
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Wow.
Keith: Wow.
Jack: Hot damn.
Dre: Keith, I feel— I'd like to make a statement to start the top of the show.
Keith: Sure. I love statements.
Dre: In our last bonus episode, I talked about how I have watched all of Dragon Ball Z and all of Dragon Ball Super [Keith: Mm-hmm.] and I have not watched any of original Dragon Ball. I imagine there will be a chunk of people who hear that and go, “What? Who’s this asshole? What is this guy doing?”
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: And I just want to say, after watching these episodes, those people are right. I'm a dumb asshole. [Keith and Jack laugh] Dragon Ball is incredible.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: These episodes whip. I need to go back and watch Dragon Ball.
Keith: Dragon Ball is great. I mentioned, I think, on the last one, that we…me and Isaac rewatched— I rewatched, he watched. A few years ago, we went through all of Dragon Ball, all of Dragon Ball Z, and then we watched Super together, which I had not seen any of at the time, and I remember sort of couching it in, like, you know, “Dragon Ball, it’s really good, but it’s old, and it does take a little while to get going,” and, you know, blah blah blah. Dragon Ball is good almost right away. Like, it’s a little slow for, like, four, five episodes in the first quarter of season one that are, like, a little bit slow.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: And then there’s parts of the Red Ribbon Army stuff that drag a little bit. Dragon Ball is great so fast.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: And is so consistent throughout, and it basically just gets better and better and better. And so…
Dre: The amount of, like, actual complexity in animation that is happening in these fight scenes is just amazing.
Sylvia: Oh, it’s so impressive.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Especially compared to, like, later Z and Super.
Keith: Right, yeah.
Dre: As they get further and further away from actual, like, hand-to-hand combat, and when they do have hand-to-hand combat, it’s mostly just, like, blurry arms and stuff.
Keith: Blurs, yeah. They do a ton with, like, color to convey motion. They do a ton of, like, really interesting framing of combat, and they do have— and again, you know, obviously it’s all hand drawn. They have some, like, really stunning scenes. In episode 19, there’s, like, one of the coolest things in the whole series, I think, happens towards the end of the episode.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: But let’s, uh…do we have any other impressions of this? Jack, we basically didn't get to, last episode, whether you like Dragon Ball or not. It just never…
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: We never answered the question.
Jack: This is fascinating.
Keith: So maybe we can start there.
Jack: Especially because I think— so, let me give some background. So, as we've talked about in Hunter × Hunter, I have not watched a ton of anime. I've watched a lot of Sailor Moon and have had a really good time watching Sailor Moon. I never watched any anime as a kid.
Keith: [quietly] Wow.
Jack: I watched some JoJo and, uh…what else have I watched? I've watched some JoJo. I've watched Hunter × Hunter. I've watched a lot of Sailor Moon.
Keith: Pokémon?
Jack: Oh, I've watched some Gundam, but I haven't seen any Pokémon.
Keith: Oh, wow.
Jack: So, I'm kind of operating in this without the sort of, the, like, familiarity with the language.
Keith: Right.
Jack: And I thought that Dragon Ball was sort of fine. 
Keith: Okay.
Jack: There was, like, a lot there that I thought was interesting, and there was a lot there that was clearly so deeply influential, and, like Dre said, there was a lot of just technical artistry in the way that the animation worked. I love seeing ‘80s animation. That stuff’s all really good.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I think I may have come at it in a weird order, where seeing Hunter × Hunter— you know, Hunter × Hunter was written in the [uncertainly] ‘90s.
Keith: Yeah, late ‘90s.
Jack: And this anime was made in 2011.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Seeing the amount of sort of themes and variations and, uh, I don't know that I want to say advancements in the sense of, like, progress, but advancements in the sense of changes in how anime is made or the techniques that are being used means that I watch Dragon Ball and there is a bit of me that sort of goes, “Right, it’s sort of this. It’s sort of like the basic version of this.” And when you are aware that it is setting the pace and setting the tone for so much of what follows, that is fascinating, but from my perspective, having come to Hunter × Hunter first, I spent a lot of the time feeling like it was…I don't know, like, a little thin, almost?
Keith: Yeah. Primitive?
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah, and I don't necessarily mean that as a value judgment. I just mean that the amount of— Hunter × Hunter is such a dense show.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And Dragon Ball— I think the clearest example of this is that Dragon Ball spends four episodes in a single fight in an arena, and it does some really cool stuff in that arena, but, you know, we've seen…Togashi will throw three or four fights into one episode, if he feels they’re interesting. Togashi’s the guy who will cut to the end of a tournament arc, will cut to the end of the Hunter Exam , skipping the end, because Gon got knocked out or whatever. And so I spent a lot of time watching these episodes, sort of academically being excited to talk to you about it, and I'm grateful that I did and that I was sort of given that context, but there was several moments where I was like, [wearily] okay, right, we're explaining— we're explaining what has happened— something has happened in the ring, and now all the characters are explaining what’s happened in the ring, and now we're in the third scene of, [Keith: Mm-hmm.] like, someone getting knocked flat. Will he get up? Won't he get up? And then, you know, of course he gets up eventually. And I was sort of just like, I was like, “Come on! Come on! Come on! I want to get to the point where they blast the entire arena into a hole in the ground,” which I thought was amazing. [Keith laughs quietly]
Sylvia: Really good.
Keith: Yeah. [Dre laughs quietly] 
Jack: But, you know, it builds to this, and we'll get to this as we sort of talk through the episodes. I think that the end of this— so, something that’s interesting is that these episodes have different names, I think, based on sort of where they're coming from or the translations.
Keith: Yeah, based on— yeah, there’s, like, the direct translation, and then there’s, the, like, Funimation dub, like, renaming of the episode.
Jack: Yeah. And so, episode— I have completely the wrong names from the ones that Keith gave us, and in my notes, I used the ones that were being given to me by my computer.
Keith: Sure.
Jack: So, in “A New Champion”, the last episode we watched for today, the whole kind of back half of that episode—no, not even the back half, the front half of this episode—is just lovely as the climax of Tien Shinhan’s awful triple beam or whatever it is.
Keith: The Tri-Beam Cannon.
Dre: The Tri-Beam Cannon, yeah.
Jack: The Tri-Beam Cannon gets played out in this really joyful fun way and results in a really cool ending. I think that if it was Saturday morning, [Keith: Yeah.] and I wake up, and I make myself some coffee, and I put on Dragon Ball, and I don't have to take notes, and I don't have to hit a deadline… [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I'd be like, “This is a lot of fun.”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: “I'm having a good time.” The difference is that, you know, when I sit down to watch Hunter × Hunter for work, I'm like, “What the fuck is gonna happen? This is great.” [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Keith: Yeah. One of the things about Dragon Ball that’s so interesting going back is that, like, at the same time as it is sort of unknowingly becoming a keystone in a genre that will absolutely explode in popularity, it’s building the language of the genre, but it’s also, like, still a, you know, a cartoon, a comic that was written in the mid-’80s, and like, people knew how to write interesting characters and plotlines in the ‘80s. Like, there was interesting characters before 1980, [laughs quietly] in the world. [Dre laughs]
Jack: In fact, I think, historically, most of them.
Dre: [sarcastic] What?!
Keith: [laughs] Yeah, if you put it on a scale, it’ll actually be most of them, yeah, just due to the sheer mass of time. But so, like, it’s funny to watch it. Like, the genre conventions are so young, but there is, to me, like…all of the sort of, like, joy of a character like Gon who has, you know, almost 15 more years to percolate in the, you know, the structure of the genre, to come out of Togashi’s head the way that he does. And there’s a lot of stuff in Gon that’s not in Goku, but the, like, fun happy guy who you want to be on his side, and everyone wants to be on his side, and everyone has fun hanging out with him, and he just seems so nice and good: that is, like, fully formed in Goku, I feel like. Like, there is no—
Jack: Yes. 
Keith: Like, he is such an energetic—
Jack: I love Goku.
Keith: Yeah, people love Goku and for good reason. Like, it is— it’s almost kind of outrageous how likable of a character he is. [laughs] 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I think his— yeah, and I think it’s worth saying that, like, because I don't want listeners to be like, “Jack hates Dragon Ball.” That is not what I'm saying. I think that, with a scalpel, I could probably cut two episodes from the five episodes we watched, and it wouldn't be the same thing, [Keith: Yeah.] but I think that it would appeal to me maybe a little more.
Keith: And this is also— this is a trend that people who make anime figure out over the 30 years between [Jack: Yes.] this show and Hunter × Hunter.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: But, from the top, I think that all the characters are great.
Keith: 20. Sorry, 20.
Jack: I would be hard-pressed to think of a character who I have been introduced to, in watching 10 episodes of this show, who I haven't sort of immediately figured out their deal and been excited to see them explore that. Really, I really do struggle to think of a character. Yamcha, maybe. Sorry, Yamcha. [Keith and Jack laugh] I think Yamcha’s a little flat.
Sylvia: No, this is fine.
Jack: But the others are all just brilliant.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And I'm so excited to talk about them. And basically every—
Keith: Well, you don't even know about Yamcha being so afraid of girls that he faints whenever a girl shows up—
Jack: Wait, no! [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Into becoming a baseball star who’s got women swooning all over him, and the—
Jack: Not at all, but he hangs out with Bulma and Lunch all the time, right?
Keith: I know, he dated Bulma for, like, 10 years.
Sylvia: To be fair, I would also pass out around Bulma, like… [Keith and Jack laugh]
Dre: Yeah, fair.
Keith: Uh, yeah, there’s a whole—
Jack: There’s so little Bulma. I'm excited to talk about Bulma in this episode.
Keith: I love Bulma.
Jack: The other thing I want to say is that basically every episode…every episode, there were, like, two or three moments that I thought were really funny. This is a really funny show. Often it is funny unintentionally, or rather, there is just some weird confluence of stuff happening, but most of the time it knows exactly why it is being funny, and it still lands.
Keith: Yeah. Sometimes it thinks it’s being funny, and it’s not.
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Because it’s not—
Dre: Like, almost anything involving Roshi looking at a woman.
Keith: Yeah. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Jack: Yes.
Keith: But plenty of other Roshi stuff is hilarious!
Sylvia: Sometimes Roshi’s pretty funny.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, Roshi does— is—
Jack: Roshi’s vocal performance is extraordinary.
Keith: Yeah, I could not— we couldn't do this without being able to all have the same Roshi, and it’s the Funimation Roshi, and it’s so good.
Jack: Did that actor go on to play him— sorry, I was drinking lemon and ginger tea. 
Sylvia: Ooh.
Jack: Did that actor go on to play him in the Dragon Ball Z?
Keith: Uh, yes, yeah, yeah, and into Dragon Ball Super.
Sylvia: Now—
Jack: Also, if you— oh, go ahead, Sylvi.
Sylvia: I was gonna say—correct me if I'm wrong here—was this dub done after the Dragon Ball Z Funimation dub?
Keith: They were—
Sylvia: Do you know?
Keith: I think they were being done at the same time.
Dre: That’s a good question.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: I thought that they were—
Sylvia: Because I think Tien’s voice actor is the same as well.
Keith: Yeah, it is. Yeah.
Dre: It certainly sounds the same, yeah.
Keith: So, pretty much all of the voices are the same. Goku’s just different because he’s much older and, like— oh, Krillin’s is different also for the same reason, but Goku’s voice actor is instead playing Gohan, when— so, I think that—
Jack: Who’s Gohan? Goku’s son.
Keith: Gohan is Goku’s son. So, when the timeskip happens [Dre: Yeah.] and Goku has a kid, kid-Goku’s voice actor goes on to be Goku’s kid.
Sylvia: Yes.
Keith: Which is cute.
Jack: Who is Goku’s wife?
Keith: Chi-Chi.
Dre: Chi-Chi. We haven't met her, I don't think.
Keith: Yeah, we haven't met her.
Jack: Okay. I saw that the next episode, the one that we stopped at, is called— on my thing, it’s called “Enter King Piccolo”, [laughs quietly] and I might just watch that. [Keith laughs]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I might just watch that for fun.
Sylvia: Listen. Fiddle dee dee.
Keith: Hey, that season is amazing.
Jack: Fiddle dee dee.
Dre: Fiddle dee dee.
Keith: So, here’s the thing. There’s a world— there’s a world where we are—
Dre: [movie trailer voice] There’s a world.
Keith: —deeper into Hunter × Hunter before we have the idea to do some bonus episodes, and instead of Tien Shinhan—because this is the tournament that I wanted to highlight as a sort of contrasting thing to the Hunter × Hunter tournaments—we're watching instead, like, something from the next two seasons, King Piccolo or Piccolo Jr.
Jack: Piccolo Jr.?
Keith: Yep.
Jack: He has a son?
Keith: Fiddle dee dee.
Sylvia: Oh, fiddle dee dee. He does indeed.
Dre: That’s fiddle dee dee, yeah.
Jack: [cross] Who’s Piccolo’s wife?
Keith: [cross] Yeah, the Piccolo you know actually is fiddle dee dee.
Sylvia: Piccolo is sort of his own wife.
Jack: Oh, like the turtle is Roshi’s husband.
Sylvia: …sure?
Keith: Um, there is an egg involved.
Jack: Okay.
Sylvia: True.
Jack: Fine. Right.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Uh, let’s see.
Dre: And then he becomes, like, five people.
Jack: Okay. Okay.
Keith: Yeah, he does become a lot of people. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: He’s— you know. 
Keith: Or a couple people become him also.
Dre: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: It’s worth saying, if you didn't listen to this first one, and I think that as we sort of fell into the rhythm of how the last Dragon Ball episode worked and just touched the live wire delight of, after the extremely precise restrictions of Hunter × Hunter, just plowing off into the wilderness [laughs quietly] with whatever questions I had about Dragon Ball.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: We're gonna spoil Dragon Ball.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Like, top to bottom, left to right. If you didn't know that by now, you're going to by the next question I ask, which is: can and does Master Roshi die?
Keith: No.
Sylvia: Oh, wait.
Dre: Can? Yes. Does? No.
Keith: Can, yes. Does, no. Master Roshi actually becomes extremely powerful, after all of Dragon Ball Z being sort of sidelined.
Sylvia: Wait, hold on. Yeah, he does die. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Oh, he does die? When does he die?
Dre: Wait, hold on.
Keith: Oh.
Sylvia: He gets killed by Piccolo.
Keith: He gets killed by— oh, and then they just wish back everybody who died from King Piccolo.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Right, I forgot about that. He also, I think, dies when Cell does the— uh, no, wait. Is it— who else do they— is it Buu? They blow up the Earth multiple times and have to wish back everyone who died.
Sylvia: Uh…yeah, no, it was Buu.
Dre: Oh, well, yeah.
Jack: And the Earth itself.
Keith: And the Earth itself.
Jack: Is that like a combo wish? The dragon allows that. I can wish five billion people or whatever back.
Dre: Uh…
Keith: The dragon is super language based, so it’s the sort of thing where, if you got really smart with it, you could get a much more powerful wish, to a point.
Jack: But it’s like genie logic, otherwise. He will trick you. Does the dragon speak, [Sylvia: Uh…] or does he just sort of show up and…?
Keith: He speaks. He sounds like, uh, the Counts from King of the Castle.
Dre: Yeah, I was about to say. [laughs] 
Jack: Oh, really?
Keith: Yeah, yeah. [Jack laughs]
Dre: Also, there’s multiple dragons and sets of Dragon Balls, Jack.
Jack: Oh my god. Okay, we'll get into this.
Keith: And some of them are on alien planets, and it is because of Piccolo.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: We'll get into this.
Dre: Well…
Jack: I think, also, you know, I've spoken on the show before— I don't want to fault Keith picking this arc, especially as this arc ends and the sort of stuff that is going on ideologically with Tien Shinhan and [Keith: Mm-hmm.] Goku clicks into place.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I was like, “Oh, I see why Keith—” even beyond a tournament arc, this makes sense.
Keith: Yeah. It’s classic shonen, yeah.
Jack: I have gone on record saying that I do not enjoy tournament arcs very much. [laughs quietly] So, you know.
Keith: But it was such a big part of the first, you know, 40 episodes of Hunter × Hunter.
Jack: Of Hunter × Hunter, yeah. Totally. Yeah, no, I…
Keith: And, you know, what grounds do you have to say you don't enjoy tournament arcs? You've never seen one.
Jack: I've seen Heavens Arena.
Sylvia: Eh.
Keith: Oh, well, besides Heavens Arena.
Sylvia: Besides the deconstruction. [Sylvia and Jack laugh]
Keith: Besides the deconstruction. You've never seen the construction.
Jack: Yes. And—
Keith: Although they do deconstruct the tournament with the Tri-Beam Cannon.
Jack: They literally do.
Keith: They literally do.
Jack: And I think that, and this is sort of my last point on broader feelings about Dragon Ball, having seen a grand total of 10 episodes of it. I'm being sarcastic. I don't think that’s a lot of episodes. I think that Sailor Moon is probably as thin.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: But I think that the content of Sailor Moon appeals to me more.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Sure.
Jack: I'm more excited to see, like, witches and crystal princesses bopping around Tokyo than I am Tien Shinhan kicking the shit out of Goku. Don't get me wrong: it’s cool as shit. But I think that my tastes draw me towards Sailor Moon a bit more, because I'm like, I like the pink. [laughs] I like the colors.
Keith: Sure.
Sylvia: Fair enough.
Jack: I like the alien spaceships and things. 
Episode 97 [0:19:21]
Jack: Now, this first episode begins in a recap, as we see Goku fight Krillin, and right off the bat, I have a question here, which is, you know, what tends to be gained in this genre from seeing our heroes fight each other in a non-charged capacity? You know, in any story, right, if it’s like, the two heroes have come to disagree and they are squaring off against each other, we know what is gained there, right? There’s this very clear drama of heroes turned against each other or whatever. But there’s something about seeing heroes fight each other in a tournament match that seems like it is serving a specific purpose, right? Is part of it the fantasy of, like, what would happen if our heroes fought each other? What is going on in that context in shonen?
Sylvia: Mm…
Keith: My impression is that, going into it, not one person would think that Krillin had a chance.
Jack: Hmm.
Keith: And so, that gives it kind of a weird, like, it does sort of make you ask the question, like, “Why are we doing this, then?” And I think it is, like… [clears throat] I think that there’s this— first of all, Krillin is a main character, and in order— you know, you want to give him screentime and time to, like, show his progress and show, like…a lot of Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z is trying to figure out where characters are in relation to each other, in terms of strength.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Like, that’s true. That is almost as true of the main characters as it is of the antagonists.
Sylvia: Do you remember in right after the Zoldyck family arc, Killua doing the little drawing on the ground of, like, here’s where your strength—
Jack: Oh, yeah.
Keith: Mm.
Sylvia: There’s— you’re constantly playing that game, basically, when you're watching this type of shonen show.
Dre: Sure. And the thing with—
Keith: Killua’s a fan of the genre. [Sylvia laughs quietly]
Dre: Yeah, and the thing with Krillin too is that Krillin is literally, like, the strongest human being. I don't think that that’s true at this point, when we're watching Dragon Ball.
Keith: Right.
Dre: But like, going into Z, Krillin is, like, the strongest human alive and kind of serves—
Sylvia: Once you find out that Goku is not a human.
Keith: Right. Which is—
Dre: Right, yeah, and serves as, like Keith was saying, serves as a foil to show, like, okay, Krillin is way stronger than almost anyone else in the universe, and the fact that he is nothing compared to Goku just serves to illustrate [Keith: Yeah.] how far Goku has gone.
Keith: And I think that it does have to go back— you know, we talked a little big about and we'll talk more about Tien and the sort of, like, Roshi’s move to kind of get Tien to turn on Master Shen and the Crane School for being too evil and how a fight is like a showcase of, like, ideology and personal stance and, like, what you believe about things in shonen, and it is, like, it is a representation of, like, a— of some kind of argument, like a moral argument or a practical argument or a political argument. And something that happens when you have two allies fighting each other is you actually get to see, like, it not be an argument. It’s not about— it’s, like, about watching— it’s about contrasting it with a fight against an antagonist.
Jack: Hmm.
Keith: Where it’s like, this is like a discussion. I wish— again, I was, like, toying with— not toying with. I literally said, like, “Hey, if we can do three episodes on Dragon Ball, we should, so that we can watch these two episodes,” [laughs quietly] and instead, we watched— we're doing two bonus episodes, and we skipped these two. So these are the two episodes, the Krillin fight, that we would have watched if we were going to spend three episodes doing Dragon Ball stuff.
Jack: Great.
Keith: And— because it does sort of showcase that sort of, like, how different it feels to see a fight between two people who are, like, on the same side, who respect each other, who are not trying to convince each other of something, and they’re just, like, having fun. And that’s, like, I think, the last piece of it, is Goku likes to have fun and is like, [Dre: Mm-hmm.] this is what he wants to do is to test himself against other people, and when it’s your friend who you enjoy as a person, it’s like a different kind of fun.
Jack: Yeah. That makes sense. I like that weird little mafioso.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Don't remember how that fight goes down. Does Goku beat Krillin?
Keith: Goku is so fast that no one can see him, and then he pops in front of Krillin’s face.
Jack: Oh, yeah.
Keith: And goes “Bleh!” and it startles him off the stage, and then Tien reveals, “Everyone else just thought he got scared off the stage, but I was— my eyes are so good that I saw that he also punched him eight times.” [Keith and Jack laugh]
Jack: Okay, cool. Goku’s getting ready for the fight. We get a little bit that I didn't get where Lunch and Bulma have washed Goku’s outfit.
Keith: I can tell you what this is. I—
Jack: So, as it happens, they're like, “We've washed your outfit,” and there’s, like, a beat, and Goku’s like, “I would have thought that— how did you make it so that the colors didn't run?” or something, and then there's another beat where they all look at each other.
Keith: Okay. So, what happens is they censor Krillin calling Bulma and Lunch pretty, and so they have to add an extra dialogue about the washing the clothes that makes it not make sense. [laughs] 
Dre: Oh. That’s weird.
Keith: So, what happens in the—
Dre: Of all the things to censor.
Keith: I know! Yeah, Krillin says that they look really pretty, and they blush, and instead, Krillin compliments how good they washed the clothes, and they blush. [laughs] So, what happens in the—
Jack: And managed to stop the colors from running, yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Instead— so, what happens in the sub is that there was no washing machine available— oh, this is another thing they changed for seemingly no reason. They— in the sub, they don't have access to a dryer, so they, like, hand dried using a hair dryer Goku’s clothes, and that’s what the conversation is about.
Jack: Okay.
Dre: Oh.
Keith: Like, “Hey, we didn't find a dryer, but we, like, hand dried it with an air dryer,” and that’s why there's anything to say about the clothes at all, and then they say, like—
Jack: Odd that you'd even include that. [Keith laughs] I mean, it’s a nice detail, but…
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: We've got a lot of fighting to do.
Keith: Well, it’s two lines of dialogue and then Krillin being like, “By the way, you're looking good,” and then it’s over. [Sylvia laughs] But then in the dub, it, like, really highlights it, because they've taken away the interesting thing about the clothes by making it they just dried it in the dryer, and then they had to add—
Sylvia: Well, it had three settings: hot, molten, and something else. [Keith laughs] It was such a bad joke.
Dre: The sun. The sun.
Sylvia: Yes.
Jack: Oh, right.
Keith: So they add an extra dialogue about a less interesting version of drying clothes, because they didn't want Krillin to call them pretty. I don't really get it.
Jack: Very silly. Okay.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Sure. Fine. [Keith laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: We also get more Master Roshi’s horniness being censored.
Jack: We do.
Keith: Oh, do we?
Sylvia: Yeah, when he's watching—
Jack: How is that being censored?
Sylvia: He was watching, like, a…
Jack: Like an exercise video, right? Like a classic ‘80s…
Sylvia: An exercise video, yeah. Well, so, his dialogue gets changed a lot. I did the thing again that I did last time where I watched with the subtitles for the subbed version on while I listened— while I had the dub playing.
Jack: That’s really interesting.
Keith: That’s what I did too, yeah.
Sylvia: And he…oh, fuck, what does he…?
Keith: I didn't catch this, even though I was doing the same thing.
Sylvia: It’s just more explicit that he’s, like, ogling the girls on the…on the sort of, like, workout tape, while—
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: And in the dub, he’s being like, [voice] “Oh, I can't hear. I've gotta get closer.”
Keith: [laughs quietly] Oh, that's what it is! Yeah! He’s—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: He’s like, super close to the TV and, like, ogling the screen, and then they couch that in the dub with “I can't hear, so I have to get closer,” which is not in the sub. Okay.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: What’s— the thing is is it’s like, we know exactly what’s going on.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And it just makes him…
Keith: [cross] It just makes him seem like a bad liar.
Jack: [cross] They are almost funnier lines, because he’s just like, [voice] “I have to get real close to the screen now!” or whatever.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Jack: The censoring has had the exact opposite effect, at this point.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: While we're still on the clothes business, there are some absolutely fantastic background outfits in this episode.
Sylvia: Ooh. 
Jack: At one point, a small boy shows up with the word “BOY” written on his shirt in big letters. [Jack, Keith, and Dre laugh]
Keith: Oh, it’s really funny, yeah.
Jack: Which is really good.
Keith: Just great clothes in this show in general.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Great clothes.
Keith: Love the clothes.
Jack: ‘80s and ‘90s anime, great clothes.
Keith: Even better clothes, like, if you ever look at Akira Toriyama’s art books, like, full of the most amazing clothes of all time, basically. You get some of it in the amazing end credits theme. It just sort of cycles through mostly, like, Bulma in different scenes.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: But not totally, but like, you get a ton of, like, cool Capsule Corp vehicles and outfits that, like, are rarely in the show.
Jack: That’s great. 
Keith: Like her, like, flying a weird World War II plane.
Jack: Huh.
Keith: I don't know if anyone else caught the end credits scene, but one of my all time, like, opening or closings to an anime is the end credits for Dragon Ball.
Jack: I should make sure to watch it.
Sylvia: My files don't have it.
Keith: [quietly] Oh no!
Dre: Oh, it’s good.
Keith: It’s so good.
Sylvia: Yeah, my, like, [innocently] totally normal DVD copies [Keith laughs] just don't have it.
Jack: Oh, Sylvi, did you also get them from [meaningfully] The Store?
Sylvia: Yeah, definitely.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I got mine from the shop, 'cause that’s what we call it in Britain.
Sylvia: Yeah, we went down to the shops and got a little Dragon Ball.
Jack: Yep. Absolutely.
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Jack: I had a crisp $20 in my pocket [laughs quietly] that I spent on—
Sylvia: That’s definitely enough to get all of Dragon Ball, too.
Dre: Yeah, yeah. At your store, was there a cat there too? [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: Yeah, just resting on the counter. They have a loyalty program.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Uh huh. 
Jack: It was great. There was a little—
Dre: Did it say “Nyaa”?
Jack: Mm, no, no, it said “meow.” It did say “meow.”
Dre: Oh, okay. Okay.
Jack: In the normal way.
Sylvia: Mine did.
Dre: The cat at the store I did said “Nyaa.”
Keith: Mm.
Jack: Oh, interesting.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: That’s notable. We have a little bit of business before the fight kicks off with, uh, the shapeshifting cat. What’s that little guy’s name?
Keith: Uh, Puar.
Sylvia: Puar.
Jack: Puar.
Dre: Puar.
Jack: Going to try and steal a seat for everybody, which they do by masquerading as a big giant and threatening another big giant, this huge sort of red oni-looking chap.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Who reveals himself to be the weird little pig guy who was also shapeshifting.
Dre: Oolong.
Keith: Oolong.
Jack: And they have— they conned each other, but it’s okay, because they’re mates.
Keith: Both named after tea. You gotta be named after tea to be a shapeshifter.
Jack: That’s true. That’s true. And Lunch as well. Lots of food names.
Keith: Lots of food names, lots of, uh…Bulma and her family are all named after underwear.
Sylvia: Yep.
Jack: Hmm. Okay.
Sylvia: Her name’s Bulma Briefs.
Keith: Yep.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Her name is Bulma Briefs?
Sylvia: Yep.
Dre: Yeah. Later on, she has a daughter who’s named Bra.
Jack: Wha— oh my god.
Sylvia: And a son named Trunks.
Keith: Yep.
Dre: Oh, yeah! Uh huh.
Jack: What is Goku’s surname?
Dre: I think she has a sister who is also named something underweary, and I can't remember.
Keith: Goku does not have another name.
Jack: Because he’s an alien.
Sylvia: Goku’s full name is Son Goku, but they've— they don't call him Son in the—
Jack: No, no, no, son Goku is Gohan, based on what I've learned.
Dre: No, that’s Son Gohan.
Sylvia: No, that’s— well, interestingly enough, Son Gohan is also Goku’s grandfather.
Dre: Oh, right. Yeah, you're right. No, you're right. Son Gohan is the grandfather. Gohan is just Gohan.
Jack: Okay. Okay. The fight begins, and it is…or rather, as Tien Shinhan is preparing for the fight, we just get some straight fight ideology, shonen fight ideology. He is trying [Dre: Mm-hmm.] very hard to hold onto the villainous teachings of Master Shen. He says, “Anger feeds power. Hold onto your anger,” because he is pissed off that Goku’s crew killed his brother, right?
Keith: Yes.
Dre: Uh…
Keith: Oh, so you did see the thing.
Dre: Not Tien’s brother.
Sylvia: No, that’s in the episode.
Jack: They mention it in the episode.
Sylvia: Yeah, they talk about it.
Keith: Do they say that Tao is the brother, though? I think they just call him Tao.
Sylvia: He does.
Keith: Oh, okay, okay.
Sylvia: The Herman— 
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Herman Crane says that he’s his brother.
Dre: [laughs] Herman Crane?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Yep, uh huh.
Jack: So, what’s this all about?
Keith: So, there’s a guy named Mercenary Tao.
Jack: Great name.
Keith: And he—
Dre: Great name. Great character design too.
Keith: Great character design.
Jack: He looks like a Togashi character, actually. He looks like one of the people in the Hunter Exam .
Keith: He does.
Jack: In the sense that he could very easily have been in the Hunter Exam .
Keith: He looks a lot like Bodoro, actually.
Jack: He does. Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: So, Mercenary Tao gets enlisted by the Red Ribbon Army, as he’s an assassin by trade, to kill Goku. [laughs] So.
Jack: Okay.
Keith: So, Goku had been going around defeating the Red Ribbon Army single-handedly. The Red Ribbon Army—
Jack: The Red Ribbon Army are just, like, standard baddies. They’re, like, a crew of…of villains who we face off against.
Keith: So, they are, like, a lot of things at different times. They do have—
Dre: Yeah, they are so many things. [Jack laughs]
Keith: They have a lot of, like, lieutenants who are kind of like sub-main antagonists. They’re also the crew that invents the androids that become really important in Dragon Ball Z, so there’s a lot of, like, evil robots that Goku’s killing as well. They’re trying to collect the Dragon Balls to fulfill their commander’s secret wish of getting taller, [Jack and Dre laugh] and also they want to take over the world. So, those are their, like, two things is that Commander Red wants to be taller and also take over the world. So, they hire Tao to kill Goku. Goku beats him, and then Tao shows up again, and I don't remember why. I think that he gets— he, like, tries to get revenge on Goku for beating him, and—
Sylvia: Is that at Korin’s Tower, or did you mention…?
Keith: That is at Korin’s Tower, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: And so, at Korin’s Tower, who’s a magical cat guardian that lives in a tower, like, miles and miles into the sky, that Goku has to climb in order to get some extra training. Tao shows up and tries to get revenge, and I think that Goku accidentally kills him? I think something big and heavy falls on him.
Jack: It’s like a grenade goes off, right?
Sylvia: He throws a grenade.
Dre: Yeah, the clip they show is he throws a grenade at Goku and Goku kicks it back up in his face.
Jack: Okay. Does Goku kill? Is this Goku kicking the grenade back—?
Sylvia: Goku—
Dre: No. Well…
Sylvia: No, Goku kills. 
Keith: Goku kills.
Sylvia: Goku kills.
Dre: Goku kills. He did not kill Mercenary Tao, though.
Keith: He did not— yeah, they’re wrong that Tao is dead, at this point.
Jack: Oh, they mistakenly believe that he is dead. Right.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: I guess my question is how much of this business with the grenade is them trying to do a sort of Batman, trying to have their cake and eat it, of like, we need to set up a death, but we don't want Goku to be directly responsible for someone’s, quote, unquote, death.
Keith: Uh, probably low. Goku’s allowed to kill.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: It’s not— I don't think it’s a moral thing.
Dre: Yeah. I don't know about Dragon Ball, but in Z and Super, Goku kills people, and it is— like, Goku doesn't— that’s not his first choice. He’s always like, “Hey, what if we were friends, and I didn't have to kill you anymore?”
Jack: Right.
Dre: But then the bad guy is like, [voice] “No, kill me, or I'm gonna kill you!” and Goku’s like—
Sylvia: “Okay.”
Dre: “Okay, Kamehameha.” [Keith laughs]
Jack: It’s quite interesting watching a tournament arc where…people die in Sailor Moon with astonishing regularity. 
Keith: [laughs quietly] That’s so funny.
Jack: Most of them are monsters, [Sylvia laughs] and as far as Sailor Moon is concerned, that doesn't quite count, but a lot of them are just, like, a woman who builds inventions just gets kicked off a cliff.
Sylvia: Bulma, no!
Jack: Bulma, no! Watch out! And I'm so curious, is there a lot of— because there is a lot of death in Sailor Moon, treated with the, uh, lightness of a Hallmark movie or a Midsummer Murders episode, you know? It’s just a death. Is this the case in Dragon Ball?
Keith: No, I don't think there is a lot of death.
Jack: How are underlings dispensed with? They’re sort of knocked out, and then we move on?
Keith: Yeah, they're just sort of, like— they just sort of, like, pass out, basically.
Sylvia: Yeah. There’s occasionally robot enemies too that just kinda get, like, blown up.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: So, another— actually, an earlier manga that Akira Toriyama writes called Dr. Slump—
Jack: Great. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Great name. [laughs] 
Jack: Right.
Keith: Is, uh—
Jack: I take it back. He's allowed to do the underwear thing. If you're out here hitting names like— what’s it called? General Tao? and Dr. Slump?
Keith: Mercenary Tao and Dr. Slump, yeah.
Jack: Mercenary Tao and Dr. Slump. I love Charles Dickens.
Sylvia: Full name Tao Pai Pai, by the way.
Jack: Wow!
Keith: Yes, yeah.
Jack: Great.
Keith: So, Dr. Slump is a, like, comedy manga. There's a ton of violence. It’s actually very similar to Dragon Ball in a lot of ways, but like, it is part of Toriyama’s background, I think, in like massive violence being done to people who then, like, you cut back to them, and they're like, “Ow!” [laughs] 
Jack: Yeah. This keeps happening. This keeps happening. As opposed to Hunter × Hunter, where some of the most strikingly unpleasant moments so far have been extensive realistic violence done to Gon.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. There is a little bit of— there is a little bit of, uh, Gon and…jeez. The ninja.
Jack: Hanzo.
Keith: Hanzo.
Dre: Hanzo.
Keith: In the beginning of the Tien fight.
Jack: The fight with Hanzo—
Sylvia: Oh, where Goku lets his ass get kicked for a while?
Keith: He lets his ass get kicked, because he hasn't kicked into his, like, battle power.
Jack: Yeah, he’s like, “I was figuring out your strength,” or whatever. It’s very…even beyond just shonen stuff, right? It’s extremely sort of pulp fighting thing, of like, “Oh, [Sylvia: Mm-hmm.] now I'll reveal to you my true power!”
Keith: Yeah, it’s, you know, Princess Bride [Dre: Mm-hmm.] or, you know, all those things.
Jack: It’s, um…well, yeah. Uh, no, I want to get to that point later, as we move on. But it’s interesting to hear that there isn't as much death, because it’s quite hard to tell, watching a tournament arc, right? You know, if these people— although, in Hunter × Hunter, in tournaments, people regularly kill each other. I mean, if you think about Hisoka killing Kastro. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Completely different feel to what is happening.
Sylvia: If you think about how all of Hisoka’s wins in the, like, top floors of Heavens Arena, we know resulted in death.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yep.
Sylvia: Aside from the first [Dre: Yeah.] Kastro fight.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Like, you know.
Jack: It’s interesting, because I was about to say, like, compare Tien Shinhan to Hisoka, but they're such different character archetypes that I don't even think Dragon Ball is trying to— I think if Dragon Ball wanted to write a character of a similar archetype to Hisoka, it probably could. I think Hisoka is so singularly weird that they probably wouldn't be able to take it to the extent that Hisoka is taken, [Keith: Yeah.] but I think that creepy, deeply sinister, predatory clown is something that could show up in Dragon Ball, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Uh…yeah.
Keith: I think yeah. I think it would feel— the vibes would be way different, but I think—
Dre: I mean, that’s what Chiaotzu is.
Jack: It is kind of Chiaotzu—
Keith: It is kind of Chiaotzu.
Jack: But I fucking love Chiaotzu.
Sylvia: Hey. [Dre laughs]
Jack: Chiaotzu has a place in my heart, whereas I am consistently developing new barricades and pit traps and things to prevent Hisoka from having a place in my heart.
Dre: Oh, sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Get that fucker out of there.
Keith: Get him out.
Jack: But Chiaotzu’s a lovely little guy. [Dre chuckles]
Keith: So, I looked it up just to, like, be totally sure about this, and, you know, I would take a ScreenRant article with as many grains of salt as you need.
Sylvia: Of course.
Keith: But this is an article called “Everyone Goku Has Killed in the Dragon Ball Franchise”, and to this point, and who knows, you know, there's this big question mark—you know, Batman Arkham Asylum style question mark—over all of the endless grunts that he’s sort of punched and we never see move again.
Jack: Oh, sure.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: But there’s Buyon, who is a Red Ribbon Army monster that one of the generals keeps as a pet. There’s Captain Yellow. Goku punches this tiger, also of the Red Ribbon Army, out of his plane while rescuing Upa. Officer Black, another Red Ribbon Army. This is the true final boss of the Red Ribbon Army, really. And then that’s it. There’s one— there’s another one that— of a character that we haven't met.
Jack: Interesting.
Keith: Who’s, actually, we see— well, I'll just say. It doesn't matter. We've said so much more on this show already. [Jack laughs]
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Tambourine, who’s the creature that will be revealed to have killed Krillin.
Jack: Interesting.
Keith: Goku kills him too.
Jack: Okay. Uh, there’s a great bit at the beginning of this fight where Roshi and Master Shen have a little argument, except they have an argument via increasingly incensed telepathy that is displayed with this, [Keith laughs] like, wiggly yellow oscilloscope line between their heads.
Dre: Yeah, uh huh.
Keith: It’s so good!
Jack: There is something— I think this is a way in which the show is so funny and is so in control of its visual language for humor or for the specific tone that it wants to hit, where we have seen telepathy from these characters before, and they just look at each other, and we hear them speak in the reverb voice or whatever.
Keith: Yeah, they look at each other and frown and kind of concentrate.
Jack: But there is something so petty about this particular argument. It descends into, like, [voice] “Your suit doesn't fit you well.” “Your neck looks fat.” “You're too short,” or whatever, et cetera. This little—
Keith: “Your hat is dumb.”
Sylvia: I think these two used to date.
Jack: Yeah, yeah, totally. [laughs quietly] This wiggly yellow line that is drawn between them is so funny.
Keith: Yeah, and it starts freaking out when they start freaking out.
Jack: Yeah, and then, I think it’s Krillin has heard this telepathy and is like, “Who are you talking to?”
Dre: I think it’s Yamcha.
Keith: I think it was—
Dre: But yeah, someone hears it.
Keith: It was Oolong and the turtle and Yamcha all heard it.
Jack: Because it’s so Roshi to be like, “I'm gonna talk to you telepathically, but I'm gonna get so into how pettily angry that I am that everybody— it might as well be that I am just shouting at you.”
Keith: Yeah, this is another great performance from his voice actor, where like, he’s sort of now defending himself against his friends, because they seemingly also heard what Shen was saying, so I don't know if Shen was also saying things out loud or if they’re all hearing the telepathy? Like, I don't know. They never are shown to be able to use telepathy like Roshi and Shen can, but they definitely heard Shen saying that Roshi has waistline issues.
Jack: Yeah. They sure did.
Sylvia: [voice] “You heard that?” [Keith laughs quietly] 
Jack: That’s pretty good, Sylvi.
Sylvia: Thank you.
Jack: I think Roshi’s so funny.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: He’s a—
Sylvia: I've heard a lot of Master Roshi, because he voices a lot of menus in the Dragon Ball Z PS2 games.
Keith: [laughs quietly] Oh, yeah, sure.
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Which also, straight up, the Budokai series, just to give a quick shoutout, like, peak shit.
Jack: Amazing.
Sylvia: Especially really fun when they start incorporating Dragon Ball characters as secret unlockables. Like, there’s one where Mercenary Tao you can get if you collect the, like, seven Dragon Balls in-game and wish for a certain thing.
Jack: That’s so good!
Sylvia: It’s like, yeah, you unlocked Mercenary Tao! And he does the, like, Dodon Ray and stuff. It’s really fun.
Keith: Yeah. Uh, Mike McFarland. That’s who voices, uh, Yoshi. Not Yoshi. Roshi.
Sylvia: Did it again.
Keith: Did it again.
Jack: Yoshi. Oh, yeah, Roshi’s fun, because— and I think part of the reason Netero works is that we don't actually see him very often, so when he shows up, he is always just doing something violent and destructive, creating the world’s stupidest bracket, you know, pitting people against each other, et cetera. Roshi is a glimpse into an alternate universe where Netero just hangs around with the main crew the whole time, and it is as good [Sylvia laughs] as you would think it would be.
Keith: Yeah, yeah. And it’s really sweet. He, like, really cares about his students. You know, he wants them to do good. He wants them to not get hurt.
Jack: He’s such a great—
Sylvia: I think that’s, like, a very important thing to balance out Roshi, right? Is to have him be the, like, also the caring grandpa [Keith: Yeah.] type character for Krillin and Goku.
Keith: It’s one of the strengths of Dragon Ball, is that it does have a lot of characters that fill different roles at different times and who can swing from playing the, like, super heightened stereotypical version of themselves to being, like, genuine and sincere very smoothly and quickly, and we actually get to see one of the best examples of this during the Tien fight, I think. We'll get to it, but the speed at which they change that character, like, during the height of—
Jack: It’s wild.
Keith: It’s wild, and it really works!
Jack: It’s great.
Keith: Like, it’s not— it doesn't feel bad. It feels natural. But like, that is one of the strengths of Dragon Ball, is how well it’s able to deploy the same character in different situations and have it feel smooth and sensical. 
Jack: I want to give a shoutout to the art here. There is a beautiful moment as the fight begins and we get this overhead view of the ring and the crowd, and the crowd are just rendered in these, like, little pointillist dots, little blobs of color. It looks really, really good. I like it a lot. And at this point—and I had been told this already, but I'd forgotten—I wrote down, “What is the prize for this? [Keith laughs] I hope it’s a Dragon Ball.” And then, immediately after—
Keith: Nah, they don't know about Dragon Balls mostly.
Jack: I wrote, “Oh, it’s money.”
Keith: It’s money.
Jack: It’s just money.
Keith: It’s, like, not even a lot of money. It’s 500,000 zeni.
Jack: Right, but—
Keith: Which is like— it’s like five grand.
Jack: What if— yeah, and you have to fight Tien Shinhan. [Jack and Keith laugh] It would have been— you know, if they’d been like, “This strange orb.”
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: “You can win this orb.”
Keith: “We found an orb!” Oh, speaking of: the announcer. Love the announcer. Great performance from that guy.
Jack: Oh, this blond fellow?
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: He’s great.
Keith: He’s a joy. He is super committed, but he also, like, doesn't know what’s going on. He’s, like, very confused. And it’s like, it’s really— it’s like, it’s very cute, because he shows up in every tournament, including Dragon Ball Z. There’s one at the very end of Z. And so, he’s just someone who’s known Goku for his whole life, basically. And same voice actor also, at least in the dub, the Funimation dub, so it’s, like, very cute having Goku show up every once in a while to the tournaments and have this guy be like, “Oh, it’s Goku, the little kid who’s amazing.”
Jack: “Also, I haven't done my prep again.” [Keith laughs quietly] His whole affect is me if I had been asked to commentate, [Sylvia laughs] like, a WWE fight. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Jack: I don't know what’s happening!
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Jack: I don't know who these people are! Gosh, this is exciting! I think he’s charging his…Triple Beam Cannon!
Sylvia: This is— I will say, the fight that Tien and Goku have is paced like a wrestling match at times.
Jack: Oh, it truly is, yes.
Dre: Mm-hmm. Oh, yeah.
Jack: There’s, like, they are constantly coming back to the count, and, you know, people lying flat on their back. Is that the end? No, actually. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Classic, uh, you know, someone’s been on the ground for 30 seconds or maybe even two minutes of screentime. The count hasn't started, or maybe it’s at eight. [laughs] 
Jack: No, it’s great. And by great, I do mean— there are several points, especially here, where I was just like, “Get up. We've seen this already— we have seen this already. The stakes here are not exciting to me, because I know that whoever is currently on the ground is just about to get up. We are not building towards anything— there is not going to be an upset in this individual moment. Either Goku or Tien—”
Keith: No, but a lot of the times those are the moments that they use to cut to, like, Tien, like, thinking about things or Crane talking about stuff with Chiaotzu or, like, Roshi and Krillin kind of analyzing things.
Jack: I suppose that’s true.
Keith: There’s a lot of, like, the…they do a lot of just sort of lingering on someone who’s lying on the ground, but I think most of the time, they’re trying to use that time productively to, like, put plot into what otherwise would be a silent 45 minute long fight.
Jack: Yeah. I think that’s fair. One of my absolutely favorite line reads, just, it might be my favorite line that we've seen so far is Roshi deciding that he wants a better seat, and he really winds up, and the incredible line delivery from Roshi. He says, like, [voice] “I've got to find a better seat!” and he jumps over a pillar in, like, one perfect move and sees Krillin and just goes, “Hello.” [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: [voice] “Hello.”
Keith: And then Krillin’s like, “Um, Master Roshi, you're not allowed to be back here,” and he’s just like, “Shut up. Shut up, Krillin.”
Jack: [voice] “Shut up! I'm the most powerful man in the world.”
Sylvia: [voice] “Who cares?” [Dre laughs]
Lore [0:49:31]
Jack: Can Roshi beat Goku? Let’s power scale briefly. Can we power scale?
Sylvia: I mean, he technically has.
Dre: At this point? I don't think so.
Keith: I think that it’s totally possible that he could, at this point.
Sylvia: I mean, this is me talking about, like, half an arc that we've watched here.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: But there is definite— with the stuff that they bring in from the first tournament arc where him and Goku are in the finals while he’s, you know, Chun-moding, and like… [Jack laughs quietly] Goku loses that fight. Like…right? Am I—
Jack: I think that’s true.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. Goku gets legitimately beaten by Roshi in season two.
Sylvia: And then I feel like the point of this arc, not just the Tien stuff, but like, there’s been a lot of, like, this is to show that Goku has trained enough that he has surpassed his master, in terms of just sheer strength or power, you know?
Jack: Right. Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: That makes sense.
Keith: But then again, I think that they leave it ambiguous intentionally, because Roshi doesn't lose to Tien. He gives up. He says, “I don't need—” Like, he hasn't really beaten him. Roshi just goes, “You're good enough to take my job.”
Sylvia: Fair.
Keith: Like, “I don't need to test my students anymore.” So it’s hard to know, like, how far could Roshi have gotten against Tien? Could he have beaten Tien and just didn't want to? Is it more useful to be out of the fight and not have to pretend to be Jackie Chun? I don't know. We— I do know that Roshi’s got a transformation in there that he never used during the fight with Tien, where he turns into big buff Roshi, and we never get that.
Jack: Huh.
Sylvia: That is true.
Keith: And we also, I don't think, get that when he fights Goku in season two. And then, this is bringing— this is jumping way forward. This is not operating within the bounds that Dragon Ball has set, but when we get to Dragon Ball Super, Master Roshi is, like, a billion times stronger than he was in Dragon Ball, [Sylvia and Jack laugh] after having been sidelined for all of Dragon Ball Z.
Sylvia: Wait, really?
Keith: Yes, legitimately.
Dre: Oh yeah.
Sylvia: That’s pretty fun.
Keith: He is fighting— he’s stronger than Gohan.
Sylvia: Okay, nevermind. I take it back. This is bullshit. What are we doing here?
Dre: Well…
Sylvia: No.
Dre: That’s also 'cause Gohan, like…
Sylvia: I'm going to Akira Toriyama’s house.
Keith: Okay, Gohan gets a lot weaker. Gohan gets a lot weaker, but Roshi gets a lot stronger.
Sylvia: Because he gets a loving wife?
Dre: Yeah, no, actually, yes, because he’s like, “I'm just gonna be normal? I'm just gonna be normal and have a wife and a kid.”
Sylvia: I'm pissed.
Keith: This is from the horrible influence of [cross] his terrible mother, Chi-Chi. [Jack sighs] 
Dre: [cross] He gets better.
Keith: But, uh…the point being basically that, like, there’s sort of a throwaway line where Goku’s like, “Wow Roshi must have been secretly training this whole time to be this strong,” but he’s so strong that I'm just like, no, Roshi just was always way stronger than anybody ever thought that he was. It’s probably a little bit of both.
Dre: I think both those things are true, yeah.
Keith: At some point, he gets scanned with a scanner, and is lower than a character you don't know, Jack, called Yajirobe, and lower than Chiaotzu also on the scanner.
Dre: Yeah…
Keith: But we know the scanners are not reliable and that humans can change their power level, so it’s, like, not that weird— 
Dre: Right, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: That Roshi’s, like, resting power level would be lower than Yajirobe’s, to me.
Sylvia: We should— uh, we can continue discussing this. I would also like to try and describe what Yajirobe’s deal is to Jack. 
Keith: [laughs] Oh, yeah. What’s Yajirobe’s deal?
Sylvia: What, like—
Jack: Okay, so, wait, wait, wait. I need a little bit of context here. Yajirobe is in Dragon Ball or is in…?
Sylvia: Yajirobe’s in both.
Keith: Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z.
Sylvia: Yes.
Jack: Okay, so will show up in this continuity.
Keith: When Yajirobe shows up, he is, hands-down, one of the strongest people on the planet. Go ahead, Sylvi.
Jack: All right, I'm gonna look up a picture of him.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: My vibe that I've always had from Yajirobe, since I was a literal child and I watched Dragon Ball Z, was, [Jack: Whoa.] “Oh, this guy’s a Jack Black character.”
Jack: Whoa! [Dre laughs]
Keith: Yeah. He really is.
Sylvia: Like, I remember I saw School of Rock, and then I kept watching Dragon Ball Z, and then I was like, “That’s the same guy.” Kind of becomes just sort of like a comedy character for the most part, [Keith: Well.] especially in Z.
Keith: He basically gets married. [Jack laughs quietly]
Dre: That’s true.
Keith: Who does he marry?
Dre: That’s true.
Sylvia: Wait who does he? Does he—
Keith: Where does he live?
[brief pause]
Sylvia: Does— [laughs quietly] wait, Keith, I feel like I'm not prepared for this. Is it— oh, is it Korin? Is it Korin the cat? 
Keith: Yes.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Right.
Keith: It’s Korin the cat.
Sylvia: Yeah, he’s sort of like if—
Keith: He’s Korin’s wife.
Sylvia: He’s like how Yamcha is Puar’s wife, yeah.
Keith: Yes, yes.
Sylvia: He’s like, short. 
Dre: Hold on. I'm gonna link a picture.
Keith: Or like how Chiaotzu is Tien’s wife.
Sylvia: Yeah, except with Korin and Yajirobe, at least there’s less of a height difference.
Keith: They have a basically explicitly husband and wife relationship.
Jack: Huh.
Keith: They live together in a big tower full of magic beans that make you really full.
Sylvia: I love that for them.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Magic beans that make you really full.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Senzu Beans.
Sylvia: Senzu Beans.
Keith: They’re called Senzu Beans. If you eat them, you regain your strength if you've been beaten half to death, which is really useful in Dragon Ball, because people always get beat half to death.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: There is a lot, to the point where it’s more— I feel like— I don't know if it’s as common in original DB, but speaking from someone who’s seen Dragon Ball Z’s point of view, the whole— “Oh, they've been beaten up really badly! Feed ‘em a Senzu Bean!” thing [Keith: Yeah.] becomes a big trope.
Keith: Yeah, but then, it’s awful, because it then becomes a trope that they've forgotten their Senzu Beans.
Sylvia: Yes.
Dre: Yeah. [Keith laughs]
Jack: Huh. Okay.
Sylvia: You know.
Jack: Sure.
Sylvia: Sure.
Jack: Goku— I'm on the wiki. “Goku drinking the Ultra Divine Water.” You'd think he’d look happy to be drinking this Ultra Divine Water, but he does not.
Sylvia: I believe— 'cause we're just— hey, we're just spoiling stuff again, right? This is like a free-for-all?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: I believe the twist of that is that it’s just normal water, right? Am I wrong, Keith?
Keith: Um, no, I think it’s real.
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre: No, I think it’s real. I think he gives Tao normal water, [Sylvia: Okay.] when Tao also goes up to drink.
Sylvia: Jack, the whole thing, the confrontation— and this’ll get us back to our episode. The confrontation between Tao and Goku, like, heats up again at Korin’s Tower, because they are both trying to get this magical water [Keith: Mm-hmm.] and run their way up this, like, giant—
Keith: That is why, yeah.
Sylvia: This giant, like, Tower of Babel, almost.
Jack: Wow!
Sylvia: Like, up to the heavens.
Jack: This is Korin’s Tower.
Keith: Yeah, miles and miles of sheer tower.
Jack: Let me see if I can find a picture of Korin’s Tower.
Keith: Oh, so, here’s the thing. Here’s the thing about the Ultra Divine Water. So, Korin is not judging people, I think. He’s not saying, like, “No, you're too evil to have this.” He is purely, if you can get up here, you can have the water, but the water has no effect if the drinker has obtained their full potential, and I think that [Sylvia: Okay.] the water was judging Tao.
Jack: Oh, sure. Classic. Classic. 
Sylvia: I see.
Jack: This is a very narrow tower.
Keith: Yes, that’s part of why it’s so hard.
Jack: Ah. Okay.
Sylvia: I think Goku just runs right up that motherfucker.
Keith: I think it takes him—
Jack: Goku, “I can swim around the world.”
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I think it takes him a few days.
Jack: Okay, the fight continues. There’s been some sort of punching.
Sylvia: Let’s get, yeah, back to it.
Jack: There’s been some slugging. People have been, [Keith: Yeah.] you know, holding back their true strength, holding back their true power. We get to see Tien Shinhan’s Dodon Ray versus [Keith: Mm-hmm.] Goku’s disappearing technique, which is what we saw in the fight with Krillin, where he moves— I think he moves so fast that he is not visible.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And we were recording something the other day, Dre and— yeah, we were all there, right?
Keith: I—
Sylvia: Mm?
Dre: Mm?
Keith: I have always recorded something the other day.
Jack: Uh, no, Keith wasn't.
Keith: [laughs] So we need to narrow it.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, oh, the thing for the Patreon in, like, half a year.
Jack: When— yeah, when was it that we were talking about— [Dre laughs] I feel like we got into this conversation about how only evil people use eye beams in shonen.
Keith: Mouth. Oh, mouth. Yeah, they shoot it out of their mouth.
Sylvia: [laughs] Wait, no, I remember now. We did talk about the mouth beams on the last time we recorded this, I believe.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Uh…so, I guess my question is: is there, like—
Keith: Oh, no, it was, um…it came up on…it came up—
Jack: What were we making?
Keith: It must have been a different podcast. It must have been— wow, fuck. It was somewhere. It was somewhere, because…
Jack: Austin was there.
Keith: Like, almost everyone was there.
Jack: Oh, it was a meeting. We must have been just having, like, a production meeting.
Keith: Oh, it was a meeting. [Jack and Keith laugh] Just a meeting!
Sylvia: Oh my god. 
Dre: Oh, was it the one that I was absolutely, like, half an hour late for? 
Sylvia: Okay, so yeah, you'll never hear that conversation. It was just for us. Sorry, guys. 
Keith: [groans] Oh, that’s funny. Yeah, it was just a meeting.
Jack: Oh man, look at this great picture of…
Dre: Ugh.
Keith: But yeah, I have a longstanding theory—I mean, not theory; you can just watch it and see—that only evil people shoot energy beams out of their mouth in Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z. The very— one of the very, very few exceptions to this rule is that Gotenks, which is a fusion of Goku’s son and Vegeta’s son. He’s the only character that’s not evil that will shoot a beam out of his mouth, but his whole personality is that he’s, like, chaotic, super chaotic and a weirdo.
Dre: And he’s trolling.
Sylvia: I mean…
Keith: And he’s trolling, and he's a trickster, and yeah.
Sylvia: Are they beams, or are they— they’re not just beams.
Keith: Oh, they also vomit ghosts, but yes.
Sylvia: Yeah! Oh, hold on. I'm trying to get a good picture of it.
Dre: Uh huh.
Jack: Excellent.
Keith: And, Jack, that’s literal.
Jack: Excellent.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: This is me after I hit the vape.
Jack: Wow. [Keith and Dre laugh] Let me see. Let me see. Whoa! Look at this. Whoa! That’s exactly what happens.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Uh huh.
Sylvia: I love the Gotenks ghosts, by the way. Don't think it’ll ever come up again.
Dre: Yeah. Gotenks great.
Sylvia: I'm a huge Gotenks apologist.
Jack: As we are so in the realm of spoiling stuff, I'm suddenly— a question raises itself to me, that I'm sure [Keith: Yeah.] we will have an answer to one day, that you cannot answer for me, which is: do ghosts exist in the Hunter × Hunter world?
Sylvia: Uh…
Jack: And my thinking is that— my guess is that ghosts don't exist in the way we think of ghosts. You know, like a person dies, and like, a ghost rises from their body. But I bet that something happens to the Nen of dead people.
Keith: [intrigued] Mm.
Jack: I think that when you die, if you have a powerful Nen, something is—
Keith: Like a Force ghost.
Jack: Sort of like a Force ghost, yes. But like, well, I don't know. Maybe even more broadly. What happens to Nen when you die? I'm sure that the show is going to get to this, because people do keep dying, and now everybody has Nen. But I do think that Gon would get on very well with ghosts. He’d be like, “Ah! You're from the realm of the dead! Whee, hahaha!” [Sylvia and Keith laugh]
Keith: Uh, Dragon Ball—
Dre: [imitates theme] [Jack and Keith laugh]
Sylvia: [continues theme]
Keith: Dragon Ball has ghosts all the time.
Jack: Oh, really?
Keith: Yeah, so—
Jack: Well, it has Hell, right? It has, like, the afterlife and stuff.
Keith: It has Hell and Heaven, has an afterlife.
Sylvia: Home For Infinite Losers.
Keith: The thing that happens almost right before the episodes that we're watching is that Goku goes on a long thing that ends up kind of just being a ploy to get him to meet and spar with his grandfather’s ghost that he doesn't know— he doesn't know that it’s his grandfather until the end of the fight.
Jack: Right, he accidentally killed his granddad or something, right? I think we covered this.
Keith: He did accidentally sit on his granddad as a big ape.
Jack: And that’s the end of granddads. Granddads don't like that, for their health.
Keith: No.
Jack: So, re: these mouth beams…
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: So, Tien Shinhan is evil, and he is using a Dodon Ray.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Goku is good, and he's using a disappearing technique or punching or the Kamehameha. Is there a sort of a relationship between virtue and moves outside of the mouth beam thing in shonen or in this show? Because this feels applicable to Nen as well. Is there a kind of— hmm. In, like, a fantasy setting, you might call it, like, dark magic. You know, is there a kind of [Sylvia: Mm-hmm.] moveset that is broadly aligned with evil? Versus one that is aligned with good.
Keith: So, there is a little bit of the Dodon Ray, the shooting it out of your finger. There’s only, as far as I know, the Crane School people—so Tao, Shen, Tien Shinhan, and Chiaotzu—can all use the Dodon Ray.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: And then Piccolo uses the Special Beam Cannon, which is the only other move that I can think of that gets shot out of your finger.
Sylvia: It’s so cool.
Dre: Yeah. Also Gohan uses it.
Keith: And so, that is a sort of 100% hit rate for evil characters—or characters who were evil at least, in the case of Tien, Chiaotzu, and Piccolo—using sort of, like, finger [stifling laughter] blast techniques.
Sylvia: Yeah, uh, mm…
Dre: Yeah. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. Yeah. [Dre laughs] God damn.
Jack: Is it about destructiveness? Is there something more passive plus the Kamehameha?
Sylvia: I think…so, there’s a character in Dragon Ball Z who’s, like, one of the first major villains, that does a lot of finger beams.
Keith: Oh, you're right.
Sylvia: And I think that part of that is— in that specific case, it’s like, look how effortless this [Keith: Yeah.] person, like—
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Totally.
Sylvia: Can do such a destructive, like, thing with. But with— it’s not really presented like that in Dragon Ball, so I don't really know. I think it’s just supposed to— I think it’s mainly here to be like—
Dre: Oh, Frieza also does it.
Keith: Yeah, that’s—
Sylvia: That’s who I'm talking about. That’s who I'm talking about.
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sylvia: I don't know why I got coy with Frieza of all people. [Jack and Keith laugh] But like, when Frieza does it, it’s very much from that position of, like, I am in my little floating Eggman vehicle.
Keith: Yeah, it’s like—
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: It’s like a regal passivity.
Sylvia: Yes.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Meanwhile, with Tien, I think it’s more supposed to be, like, look at the difference between the Crane and the Turtle schools.
Jack: Mm.
Sylvia: Because like, that was kind of what the purpose of Tao Pai Pai was in, um…in the arc that we didn't watch. That’s Mercenary Tao’s non-dub name, sorry. I was throwing out the Tao Pai Pai without explaining.
Jack: It’s a great name.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s a great name. Dub or sub, great name for that guy. Yeah, I don't know if it’s necessary specifically evil or good coded in Dragon Ball, though I guess, I guess since the Crane School’s the evil guys, maybe I'm wrong about that. But in affect, the way that it’s used does not communicate the same things that it does in the future in Dragon Ball.
Keith: Yeah. Although they do, you know, when in the— in Dragon Ball Z, when you start being able to sort of effortlessly shoot unnamed yellow blasts out of your hand, there is something about the, like, the deliberateness of the Kamehameha as a move [Sylvia: Hmm.] and then the sort of, like, open hand of the regular blast thing versus the, like, sort of like the aggressive point of—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Maybe that’s something. That’s the closest thing that I can think of, in terms of, like, body language.
Jack: Hmm.
Sylvia: No, that’s a good point.
Keith: We do see evil characters shooting things out of their mouth and finger and good people not doing that, for whatever reason.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: What would happen if I got hit by the Kamehameha?
Dre: Dead.
Keith: You'd be vaporized.
Sylvia: Probably die.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: This is my question.
Sylvia: Or you'd discover something about yourself, and maybe you're a Saiyan.
Dre: That’s, yeah.
Keith: [laughs quietly] The first thing that we see happen when a Kamehameha is used in the show is that it destroys an entire mountain.
Jack: So, it would—
Dre: It’s then used to destroy the moon.
Jack: Holy shit.
Keith: Yeah, that’s the second big thing.
Jack: Right, right, right. I see. It would…it would obliterate me. I wouldn't—
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It’s not a kind of move that would, like— for example, we see people— does anybody get hit by a Kamehameha in these episodes, or do they always dodge it?
Dre: Yeah,
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah, no.
Keith: We see the Crane Master get hit with one.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Oh, and he just goes flying.
Sylvia: And he goes…
Dre: And he rides off into the sunset.
Sylvia: He does a Team Rocket.
Keith: He goes flying off. But that is sort of, you know, Roshi having control over it, keeping it from, like, exploding.
Jack: Right, but if Goku shot me with one that’s it. Goodbye.
Dre: No, yes, instantly.
Keith: Yeah. Instantly dead.
Jack: I don't even…I don't even leave a body.
Keith: Right.
Sylvia: Here, I have found a clip of the first Kamehameha, if we want to check this out very quickly.
Jack: Okay, let’s see.
Sylvia: Just to get, like, a sense of the vibe of, like, how destructive this is presented. I think this is the one that Keith just mentioned. It’s, like, a minute long.
Jack: Whoa! Roshi’s huge!
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Okay. Uh, this is two minutes. Should we three-two-one?
Sylvia: Do we want to sync this up?
Keith: Sure.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: Oh, is this a different dub?
Sylvia: I don't know. It might be. 
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: This might be Harmony Gold or something. I didn't check super clearly.
Keith: But that’s fine.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Okay. 
Jack: Okay. Three, two, one, go.
[pause]
Jack: Someone trying to shoot Roshi with a rocket launcher?
Sylvia: While he’s nude?
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah. Is that purple hair Bulma?
Jack: [laughs quietly] God. Him beefing up while these explosions happen in the background is really good.
Sylvia: Yeah. God damn! That is our Roshi voice, though.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: So I think this is the same dub.
Keith: Yeah, it is, yeah.
Jack: Who’s this?
Keith: That’s Yamcha.
Jack: Oh.
Dre: Is this from, like, GT or something? Like a flashback?
Sylvia: It looks different than I thought.
Keith: I think that it— I think the colors are wrong.
Dre: This is GT. This is GT.
Keith: This is GT?
Sylvia: Damn! Wait.
Dre: Yeah, that’s GT Goku.
Sylvia: Damn. I fucked up.
Dre: But, I mean, it seems like it’s supposed to be, like, a flashback.
Sylvia: It’s a retelling of it, I think, yeah.
Keith: Yeah, because in my memory, the first Kamehameha was, uh, on the mountain— it was at the Ox-King’s place. He blew up the mountain.
Sylvia: Yeah, this—
Jack: Oh my god.
Keith: But this is very close to what it was like.
Sylvia: Yeah. I did find the actual one, but we've already watched our clip. 
Jack: God, that shot of it moving the water was so cool. Oh, he blew a battleship? [laughs] 
Sylvia: You know what? Hey, there you go. Effective. 
Jack: And then to war.
Sylvia: I think this might be from a movie, yeah, actually, or something like that.
Jack: Oh my god. That shot of the boat, like, turning over. Oh, this is a fleet! He’s just—
Keith: He destroyed a whole fleet.
Jack: This is a really cool shot.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Also was me secretly being like, “Hey, Dragon Ball GT is cool. You guys can still like Dragon Ball GT.”
Jack: What is Dragon Ball GT? 
Sylvia: Dragon Ball GT is the non-canon sequel to Dragon Ball Z that I like.
Jack: Huh. Okay.
Keith: It’s really fun.
Dre: I've never watched it.
Keith: It’s extremely stupid.
Sylvia: It’s very stupid, [Dre: Yeah.] but it’s very fun.
Keith: In a good way.
Jack: God, Roshi’s sick. I love Roshi. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Yeah, Roshi rules.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Episode 98 [1:09:17]
Jack: All right, uh…
Sylvia: We should talk about this actual fight, huh?
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Uh, no, actually, first we should talk about the man who’s wearing a cap that just says “mermaid”.
Dre: No, it’s fine. We've only been doing this for an hour. [laughs] 
Keith: Sorry, there’s someone wearing what that says “mermaid”?
Jack: There’s a man wearing a cap that just says “mermaid”.
Keith: That’s great. That’s fantastic.
Dre: Shout out to my guy in the line that’s like, [voice] “I quit my job just to see this fight!”
Keith: Oh, the crowd chatter is hilarious. [Dre laughs]
Jack: It’s so good. 
Keith: It’s so funny.
Sylvia: Oh, the guy who’s like…so, in the subtitles, there’s a guy who talks about how he put 10,000 zeni on Tien in the fight, that they don't mention in the dub, and I just had in the back of my mind the entire time, being like, “This dude’s gonna lose his fucking house if this doesn't work out.” [Jack, Dre, and Keith laugh] Also another good crowd shot is my man in the Pennzoil shirt.
Jack: What does the shirt say?
Sylvia: Pennzoil. P-E-N-N…like the brand Pennzoil. [Dre laughs]
Jack: What is Pennzoil?
Keith: I don’t know what Pennzoil is.
Sylvia: Pennzoil is like motor oil.
Dre: It’s an oil brand. 
Keith: Oh. 
Dre: Yeah. They also own, like, racecar teams and stuff.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Oh, that’s great. That’s a good logo. It’s the word “PENNZOIL” over a bell, looks very cool.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: So, we left off with the Dodon Ray.
Jack: And then, uh…
Dre: Oh, oh, oh! We did skip another very important piece of dialogue, which is when they’re getting ready for the fight, Launch yells, “Stop with the yackin’ and start with the smackin’.”
Sylvia: And starts shooting a gun in the air.
Dre: And I think also threatens to shoot people.
Keith: Pistol into the air, yeah.
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: And, at this point—
Sylvia: The perfect woman.
Jack: Yeah. At this point, Lunch and I have the same opinion. I wrote down, “Can we fight?” [laughs] 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Fair enough.
Jack: I'm trying to affect 1986 through my Google doc. Then, Tien Shinhan uses his Volleyball Technique. This is very funny, because it implies that Tien Shinhan knows what volleyball is.
Sylvia: I love it.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It is exactly what you think it is. He kicks Goku into the air and then sort of, like, spikes him.
Sylvia: He’s got a real, like, stoked face while he's doing it all too. Like, he is the most hyped.
Dre: Oh, he loves volleyball.
Keith: Yeah, he’s surrounded by flowers too.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Oh, he is.
Sylvia: Like, he is so happy. Chiaotzu’s like, “Oh, that’s his favorite technique!”
Jack: Well, you know why this is, is because Tien Shinhan is a kind of shattered sad individual raised only for violence, and using the Volleyball Technique lets him remind himself of the few other pleasures he has in life: watching volleyball.
Sylvia: Killua, we need you to learn how to use the Volleyball Technique. [Sylvia and Jack laugh quietly]
Keith: Sorry for the big pause button in there, but that is the… [Keith, Sylvia, and Jack laugh] That is the Volleyball Technique face.
Sylvia: Something that is in the screenshot that you have that I love about Tien during this is when they animate his third eye too to match the shape of his other eyes. [Keith and Dre laugh] Like, it’s a really good attention to detail, and it’s, like, [Keith: Yeah.] very characterful.
Jack: It’s so good.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s a really good touch.
Keith: Look at the arc on those eyebrows too.
Dre: Man, I just thought about what if Tien also had a third eyebrow. That’d be fucked up. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: That’d be weird. I wouldn't like that.
Dre: No, me neither.
Jack: I bet they did concept art for it, right? He's got three eyes?
Sylvia: Almost definitely.
Dre: Yeah. You know what, maybe he does have one, and he just shaves it alongside his head.
Jack: Oh, maybe he does. Uh, let me see. But he’s doing his Volleyball Technique, and then we have the classic shonen politics of holding back. You know, Goku saying, “I have to use my battle strength so that I don't get carried away, but now, now we're really playing ball.” And he demonstrates this by winding up a Kamehameha and then stopping it, because he realizes that, uh…what is his reasoning here?
Keith: So, Roshi actually explains his reasoning, which is, uh, [Dre: Mm-hmm.] that Goku noticed that Tien wasn't as hurt as he thought he was, and if he shot him with a Kamehameha, he would miss and waste energy on nothing.
Jack: Oh, right. I see.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Because a Kamehameha is very energy intensive to use.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: What do we think makes the punching noises? Because there are punching noises happening constantly.
Sylvia: Oh, it’s so good.
Jack: Is it a synthesizer? What is…what is punching?
Sylvia: I don't know.
Dre: I don't know.
Sylvia: I don't know, but it—
Dre: It sounds percussive.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: It is just the— it is the best type of sound effect ever, I think.
Jack: Yeah. [imitating sound effects] Chow! Bow!
Dre: [googling] How were Dragon Ball punches created?
Sylvia: Smash Bros. uses some of these sound effects, actually, if you get— like, in the early games, if you hit with the home run bat, there is, like, straight up [cross] the sound effect that’s in these episodes as well. 
Keith: Oh, the little, like, [imiating] pew! Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: I know exactly what you're talking about now. Yes. The, like, critical hit sound.
Sylvia: Yes.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: But I'm also just talking about the sound of the punches making contact, right?
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: I… [sighs] 
Jack: [cross] I'm trying to think about how I would make that sound.
Sylvia: [cross] I used to know more about foley work.
Jack: Yeah. 
Sylvia: I don't know if it’s necessary the same method that they used for older action movies, but I know that people used to just smack sides of meat, and I think this is too synthesized to sound like that.
Jack: Yeah, it’s got a bit more [Dre: Yeah.] sort of splashiness to it, right?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, I think it’s a—
Dre: Okay, it was created by Fizz Sound Creation, is the name of the company that made that. There is no more information that I can find about, like, how it was made.
Keith: It’s gotta be, like, a weird, like, reverb drum synth.
Dre: Sure, yeah. I mean, especially, like, the— 'cause there’s, like, the higher pitched sound when it’s, like, a really hard hit.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. That’s the Smash Bros. one, I believe.
Dre: Yeah. Well, no. It’s the Dragon Ball one that Smash Bros. stole, so.
Sylvia: Mm…okay. [Dre laughs]
Jack: If you know how they made the sound effects of the punching in Dragon Ball, please let us know on Twitter at @friends_table.
Dre: Yes.
Jack: Or on Cohost at @friends-table. I would love to know, because there’s a lot of punching. Um…then we have some play about— we're essentially moving from one different kind of move sort of set to the next. There’s this really cool moment where Goku creates a bunch of illusions to confuse Tien Shinhan.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And then it is revealed that Tien has also created a bunch of illusions to confuse Goku, so all the illusions kind of— we have this great little montage of the person we think is legit striking the villain we think is legit and them both being revealed to be doubles, and I thought that was really good.
Keith: Yeah, it’s really great, because it’s built on, you know, dozens of episodes of people using the Afterimage Technique to trick people and then, like, that starting to not work, because the show, you know, the show’s like, “We've done this so many times. We can't do this anymore, so we need characters who aren't going to fall for Goku’s tricks,” and then turning the tables of, like, having a character that won't fall for his first trick but will fall for his third trick. [Keith and Jack laugh]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah, fool me once and twice and a third time, and I'll still be fooled. It makes me think of just the beauty of that moment where Killua tries to shadow step Gittarackur and there’s no visual effects or audio accompanying the shadow step, just before Gittarackur reveals that he is Illumi. And that kind of moment— the way that Togashi and the adaptation team on the anime are able to sell this kind of, like, “the move hasn't gone the way you think it does,” just so subtly by just seeing Killua go into that cadence of the shadow step but with none of the support of the visual effects around it.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Really, really good moment. That whole Killua-Illumi showdown. First showdown.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: There’ll be more. Top Hunter × Hunter moment so far. Just great.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Then Tien does the move which makes my eyes hurt, where he makes everything— what’s he call this?
Sylvia: Oh my god!
Keith: Solar Flare.
Dre: Solar Flare? Yeah.
Sylvia: Like, I felt like I got Solar Flared afterwards.
Dre: It’s intense.
Sylvia: Like, they really did it like…
Keith: They Solar Flare you.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: It is a high speed, high light intensity strobe between white and blue. It is, on the one hand, a really cool visual effect. I think I talked about it the last time. I love the way it just renders the whole view in these white and blue highlights. It looks gorgeous. It is also a real headache to look at, and I'm glad that they don't put that on children’s television anymore.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: They don't do it— they don't [Dre: Yeah.] do it very often, luckily, because it is annoying to watch, [laughs quietly] but it is cool.
Jack: It is unpleasant to look at, but it is undeniably really cool. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: And I think one of the better comedy moments of these episodes too, [laughs quietly] the thing that happens.
Jack: Oh my god, because then what happens?
Keith: So, during the Solar Flare, [Dre laughs] Tien launches himself at Goku and then is shocked to have this blocked.
Sylvia: Oh my god.
Keith: And then to have an enormous punch right in his abdomen, and he’s like—
Sylvia: He gets his shit wrecked.
Dre: Yes.
Keith: He can barely talk, and he’s basically like, “How did you do that?” and then Goku’s like, “Sunglasses!” [Keith and Dre laugh] And then he’s like, “Where did you get sunglasses?” and then he just says, “Borrowed!” [laughs] 
Dre: “Borrowed ‘em!” 
Jack: He doesn't even say borrowed them. He does just say, “Borrowed.” 
Keith: Borrowed.
Jack: [laughs] It’s so funny.
Keith: And so, then they go back and explain what happened. I think it’s, uh…is it Yamcha who explains this? Yamcha—
Jack: So, here’s the thing. The first thing that happens is Krillin looks at Master Roshi and says, “You look familiar.”
Keith: Yeah, “I've never seen you without glasses before.”
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Jack: “I've never seen you without your glasses before.” And Roshi’s just like, “Oh god, how dare you!” you know, “Focus on the fight. Stop thinking about me,” you know?
Dre: [imitates Roshi grumbling]
Sylvia: It’s so funny how blushy he gets.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I know!
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s like, “Oh no, you've seen my beautiful eyes!”
Jack: My gorgeous—what’s that guy called? Jackie Chun?—eyes.
Keith: Yeah, it’s so funny. Like, the ruse is so thin too. Like, it’s just the same guy without glasses. It’s a reverse Clark Kent.
Jack: It’s so good.
Sylvia: Yeah. He does add hair as well.
Dre: His hair’s a little different.
Keith: Sure, he does add—
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, and a wig, yeah.
Jack: Uh, also— and the final punchline to this, which just absolutely killed me, is the absolutely nadir of the show explaining things we already know, which is after Goku puts sunglasses on to defeat this attack, Yamcha comes in and says, “Goku wore the sunglasses, because it was really bright, and sunglasses help you when things are really bright, and it helped him punch Tien Shinhan.”
Keith: [laughs quietly] Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. [someone sighs] Yamcha’s the one who saw that he took the glasses from Roshi.
Jack: I can put that together. We've just seen that Roshi isn't wearing his sunglasses. 
Keith: No, you have the order backwards.
Jack: This is not a—
Sylvia: Hmm.
Jack: Uh…
Sylvia: Uh?
Dre: You don't understand.
Keith: I'm pretty sure. Maybe I'm wrong.
Dre: Jack, you could see it, but everyone else couldn't see it.
Sylvia: Because they’re in Solar Flare.
Keith: Because Solar Flare.
Dre: Because they’re fighting too fast. [Jack laughs] Yeah, and they're moving too fast, and Solar Flare, and so, you know.
Keith: Dragon Ball is the ultimate “we have to explain it to characters that didn't know what’s going on even if the audience [Dre: Yeah.] does know what’s going on” show, but I could have sworn that it does show Yamcha explaining that he got it from Roshi before they show Roshi with no glasses. Maybe I'm wrong. I could have it backwards. 
Dre: That sounds right.
Keith: My brain could have put it in the right order on its own.
Jack: There is something about this punch to the abdomen that Goku just absolutely rocks Tien Shinhan’s shit with that I find really enjoyable, because it sets out that a punch can and will be as consequential in the stakes as one of these massive high concept magic attacks.
Dre: Yeah. Absolutely.
Jack: You know, we can have the Kamehameha. We can have the Dodon Ray. You know, we can have the solar burst, Solar Flare. But ultimately, when it comes down to it, Goku hitting you extremely hard in the tummy is just as consequential.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And I like that a lot. Especially— 
Dre: I feel like that is a— that’s a thing they come back to a lot, especially when, like, Goku or someone else gets, like, a new form and levels up, is that the most consequential thing they do immediately after getting a level up is not a big new blast, it is, “Oh, now I can get in so close and so quickly and so easily [Jack: Mm.] that I just punch you in the gut, and you, like, cough your whole lungs up.”
Jack: Yeah. This is also Gon philosophy to a certain extent, right? Gon is definitely interested in and respects the power and capacity of Nen, but we've seen several times that Gon will use his head to solve a problem, even when fighting, like, a Nen wield— what are people who called Nen—
Keith: A Nen user?
Jack: What are people who wield Nen called? A Nen user. He will be like, “All right, fine.” We saw this with, um…oh my god. What was spinning top man called? His named began with a G.
Keith: Gedo? No.
Dre: Oh!
Sylvia: Gido.
Keith: Gido.
Jack: Gido!
Dre: Gido.
Sylvia: Gedo is a professional wrestling manager.
Jack: Oh. [laughs quietly] Not that guy. Where, you know, like, Gon would use bits of Nen to sort of anticipate how the tops work but ultimately will just lift up the floor or will charge him, you know. I think that’s really interesting. Before we move onto episode eight, which my thing calls “Enlightenment”, I have a quick question about the ad break where Goku hits Roshi in the face with his…
Dre: [imitates song]
Jack: [joins in] Bong! Where he hits him in the face with his extending staff. Is he doing that on purpose? Is Goku a little trickster?
Sylvia: A little bit.
Jack: Or was Roshi just in the way?
Dre: Little bit, yeah.
Keith: Wait, sorry, when Goku does what?
Jack: In the little ad bumper when we come back into the episode.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: Goku activates his little power staff and hits Master Roshi square in the head, causing his head to reverberate like a gong.
Keith: Right.
Jack: And I wasn't sure if that was something he was doing on purpose or if it was just a little accident.
Dre: Yeah. Yeah. I mean, remember when they see him eliminating Krillin, [Keith: Yeah.] he goes like, “Bla-la-la-la-la!” and like sticks his tongue out right before eliminating his best friend.
Jack: Is his relationship with Master Roshi such that he would feel okay doing that kind of a little joke?
Keith: Um, I think—
Dre: Probably.
Keith: I think it’s on the line, hitting him in the head with the staff?
Dre: Well, yeah. If it actually happened, like, in the show, it would be not intentional.
Keith: Right.
Dre: It would be an accident.
Jack: But doing it in a little ad bumper.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah, I think it’s on the line.
Jack: That’s good. Um, okay.
Keith: It is funny, though.
Jack: It’s good every time. I closed my notes. Where are we now?
Keith: Uh, we are— oh, we’re— [laughs] We missed a line that I thought was really funny. This is, like, before the Solar Flare but after, uh, like, Goku’s doing really well for a minute, and then, like, Tien’s getting a couple hits in. Chiaotzu just, like, totally blank face, goes, “You're great, Tien!” [laughs] 
Jack: Aw, Chiaotzu!
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I love Chiaotzu.
Keith: Yeah, Chiaotzu’s really funny.
Sylvia: Yeah. Big Chiaotzu fan.
Episode 99 [1:24:39]
Jack: And Chiaotzu immediately starts cheating.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Real banger of a line from Master Shen. Master Shen says, [voice] “I don't think Goku understands our position, Chiaotzu. Explain it to him,” and then Chiaotzu starts doing a bit where he will sort of paralyze Goku with a beam from his finger.
Keith: Evil finger beams.
Jack: There is something interesting going on here with, like, good and evil forms of outside help. You know, Goku had the nous and forethought to go and steal Roshi’s sunglasses and kind of bring that into the ring, but the Crane School is doing just a very underhanded form of outside help in having Chiaotzu just witch Goku from the side of the ring. You know, it’s like, who is allowed to behave in this way, the heroes or the villains? et cetera. 
Keith: Yeah, and they really lean into this too. 
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Like, it is, like, four or— this was my moment of, like, “Okay, we get it.” This is my one thing where I was like…
Dre: Yeah. Over and over and over.
Keith: This is dragging. We get it. Every time, he paralyzes him. They do— they need to give it enough time to where, like, all the characters are slowly figuring out what’s going on.
Dre: Mm-hmm. Even Launch.
Keith: But I still feel like, you know, a couple times fewer wouldn't have killed any of the—
Jack: Yeah, I would cut a lot of this.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: But I do like seeing Chiaotzu do stuff.
Keith: Yeah. Again, this is something— this is, like, an early anime problem. In the manga, I assume that this is probably two pages, you know? Like, I don't know for sure, but this is classic, like, we found the beats where we want to begin and end an episode. Sure, that might only be 32 minutes, but we really, really need 43 minutes out of it.
Jack: Yeah. Goku gets knocked out of the ring and then Kamehamehas himself back into the ring, using it like WALL-E with the fire extinguisher.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: It’s brilliant.
Keith: And setting up something really interesting for later.
Jack: Yes. Yes. I thought this was really fun. I did not realize that the [Dre: Mm-hmm.] Kamehameha could be used as a technical tool, as opposed to a way of obliterating men.
Keith: Yeah, this is, um…I can't say if it’s the first time that this happens. I don't think that it is, because my memory is that the first time that Goku uses it to, like, change his trajectory, Roshi, like, flips out, because I think he also did not know that you could do that. [laughs] 
Jack: [laughs quietly] Ah, wow! It’s like when people in Hitman tutorials see Agent 47 changing disguise for the first time, [Keith and Dre laugh] and they're like, “This new technique! Wow, he really thought of that!”
Keith: Yeah. I could be wrong. I just have a vague memory of, you know, it being one of those moments where, you know, they're, like, showing you that even though he— he might be a total dumbass, but also he’s a weird fighting genius!
Jack: Yeah. Oh, who? Goku?
Keith: Yeah, Goku, yeah.
Jack: Yeah, I love Goku. He is a total dumbass. I think so much of what makes Goku work for me as well is the art style on him. He is— we talked about kiki and bouba in another recording recently.
Sylvia: Yeah. [Dre laughs]
Keith: He’s got both.
Sylvia: We talk about that a lot, honestly.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: No, he is mostly bouba.
Keith: He’s bouba from the neck down, but then he is kiki from the hair out.
Dre: Oh, he’s so bouba.
Jack: Yes, but I feel like a lot of Gon is kiki.
Keith: Gon is very kiki.
Jack: Gon is, like, spiky and agile, and there is something kind of like, sort of like soft and—
Keith: Yeah, he’s like a pudgy little monkey.
Jack: Like a kid’s drawing. [laughs quietly] Yeah, he’s like a pudgy little monkey. That I think sells the— the fact that he is also, like, the greatest fighter on the planet and is also just, like, likable. I think Goku’s great. All throughout this, we have kept coming back to the classic wrestling standby of: “Have they been knocked out? Is the match over? No.” And I do want to say that every time Gon and every time Togashi plays this exact feeling—you know, “Is the person down for the count?”—he’s done it in so many clever little ways. Like, for example, Hisoka saying to Gon, “The poison from the blowdart will wear off in two days,” and by the time we cut back to Gon, he’s up on his feet or whatever. I feel like every time Togashi wants to do one of these, like, “the person wasn't actually down for the count, and they've actually got up,” he couches it in a moment that is, in and of itself, interesting or exciting.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Rather than just the wrestling match game of, you know, how long should we let the count run before you get back up again.
Keith: Yeah, there are some throwaway moments, [Dre: Mm.] but it’s like, it’s easy to— it’s easy to look past them, because it’s like, what, like, one time in five episodes, someone will be lying down and then get up and be like, “I'm fine, actually,” and it’s just like, it just sort of melts into the background of the fight versus, you know, Dragon Ball’s doing it constantly. Krillin, for a really really long time, from, like, halfway through Dragon Ball through most of Dragon Ball Z, is the character who’s sitting on the sidelines being like, “Yay! You did it, Goku!” and then, like, no, there’s 12 more episodes in this fight. [Jack and Keith laugh]
Jack: Sorry, Krillin.
Keith: Sorry, Krillin.
Jack: I have some bad news.
Keith: Wrong again. [Dre laughs]
Jack: Everything here, every single thing in these episodes—specifically this episode—the cheating, the move with the sunglasses, the Kamehameha back into the ring, the conversations about good and bad between Tien Shinhan and sort of the offscreen Master Roshi. All of this is so legible to an audience of children, [Keith: Yeah.] and it is in [Dre: Mm-hmm.] this way that I think the episode is really working for me. The ways in which it is demonstrating and understanding that its audience is children, not so much in the “well, we have to explain everything over and over again,” but in the interest in things that children are interested in.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: You know, like, core broad depictions of justice and injustice.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Like, straight up simple applications of, like, “Well, he’s doing something very bright, and so you have to put sunglasses on!” right down to [Dre: Mm-hmm.] just like, “He’s cheating, and that’s not allowed, and you shouldn't be cheating!”
Sylvia: Yeah, I was gonna say.
Jack: it working in this mode of children’s fiction, and it is kind of hitting basically every beat, and I was really impressed by that.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: You know, and I think that this is part of why— you know, any time, even on this show, that we talk about Dragon Ball, the thing that keeps coming back is, like, you three— maybe not all of you. Definitely some of you being like, “Dragon Ball was a show that I watched when I was a child, and I have really clear memories of.”
Sylvia: Yep.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I keep thinking about you, Keith, doing that thing where you broke down your schedule as a child, and you were like, [Dre laughs] between finishing homework and bed, that’s time for watching or thinking about Dragon Ball.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And it’s like, this is the mechanics of making that work.
Keith: I would watch Dragon Ball and then Dragon Ball Z and then Yu Yu Hakusho in a row.
Jack: Yeah, and then you would be thinking about Dragon Ball.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: The kind of ways this is getting wrapped into a child’s understanding of how the world works or should work I think is just really great writing for kids and is really fun, which we don't get so much in Hunter × Hunter, because I don't think Hunter × Hunter is— I think Hunter × Hunter is a show that children, some children would have a good time watching. I don't think it’s a show for children in the way that Dragon Ball is. This is a good question, actually. What is Hunter × Hunter’s intended audience?
Keith: Kids. It is…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: The line is blurry and has been blurred over the last [Dre: Sure.] 30, 20, 30 years, but like, by being shonen, it is advertising itself as being for kids.
Jack: And there are ways in which I think that, um…you know, I think Austin was right when we talked about, like, Nen and the structure of Nen as a way of falling into this kind of structured writing for children, but I also think about stuff like the Hanzo fight, and this isn't me out here saying I don't think that that stuff should be on children’s television so much as it’s me saying: what audience do the people making that scene think that they are aiming for?
Dre: Sure.
Jack: And I don't know the answer to that. I think there is a lot of psychosexual stuff going on with Hisoka that is…
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Jack: Uh, not aimed at a children’s television audience.
Dre: Or at least shouldn't be.
Jack: Or at least shouldn't be.
Keith: Right.
Jack: I mean, I think— but I think that stuff is so central to what the show is trying to do, right? So it’s like, are they— are the makers of the show saying, “Well, we're aiming for a broader age bracket here”?
Keith: Yeah…
Jack: I don't know.
Keith: I think it’s just— yeah, it’s this weird place of the way that Japan’s breaking down age demographics for their audience and, like…
Jack: Where it’s like, oh, shonen is just— is for kids.
Sylvia: Also very— it is a broad age range still, like.
Keith: It’s a broad age range. Yeah, it is like, kids kids but then also, like, teens kids.
Jack: Right. It feels, to me…it’s so weird, right? Because I don't want a listener to be listening to this and thinking, “Jack can't see all the ways that Hunter × Hunter is clearly a kids’ show.” There are— I mean, look at Gon and Killua and the kind of that broad, uh, ideological and narrative push of, like, “You don't think you are worth friends and friendship, and I'm going to try and show you that that’s not the case.” That is, like, a classic piece of children’s storytelling. But then I think about, you know— and even something like, uh, conceptually the fight with Hanzo or conceptually the fight with Canary crossing the line I could see fitting very cleanly into a kind of children’s fiction imaginary. Maybe this is just something that the way the adaptation is working, but the way those scenes are shot is just so spectacularly unpleasant.
Dre: Mm.
Keith: Yeah, it is…I mean, it’s hard to…it’s impossible to not admit that there’s things about Hunter × Hunter that make it, I think, unique.
Jack: Yes, and perhaps unusual for a piece of children’s media. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: Yeah. But again, you know, there’s…you know, there’s…I really do think that there’s a sort of blurring of the line of, like, who the audience is for shonen, and to say—
Jack: Of, like, a breadth between YA and children’s fiction.
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dre: Sure.
Keith: And probably… [sighs] In terms of including themes that are more adult than— besides violence, because it is an extremely violent genre, you know, broadly speaking. I think that, you know, more mature themes besides the violence, Hunter × Hunter’s probably in the foreground of, like, things that, you know, typically would be marketed towards, like, older kids and, like, younger adults. Like, mid teens to mid 20s, instead of shonen, which is, like, kids and teens.
Jack: Right. But it’s not like Eva.
Keith: No. Well, I mean, I don't—
Sylvia: No.
Dre: No.
Keith: I don't know, because I haven't seen it, but.
Sylvia: You're fine.
Dre: I hope not? [laughs] 
Keith: You hope I haven't seen it?
Dre: No, I hope it’s— I hope Eva is not being intended to the same audience as Hunter × Hunter. [laughs] 
Jack: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Ugh.
Jack: But yes, I mean, to bring it back, yes, the way that this fight is playing so legibly in the space [Keith: Yeah.] of children’s fiction.
Keith: Even down to—
Jack: And the things kids are interested in.
Keith: We even get to see, like, in terms of how readable the, like, the morality at play is, because yeah, there’s a lot of, like, sort of one plus one equals two plotting, like the sunglasses and the Solar Flare and stuff like that. We also get to, like, watch Tien watching the— like, reading the morality going on in the fight, because we see his last, like, dirty trick. When Goku is giving the sunglasses back to Roshi, Tien, like, gets him back for the punch with, like, a massive kick in the head.
Jack: Yes.
Keith: That reads as very unsportsman, and that’s when we go into the Chiaotzu stuff, you know, freezing Goku, and he starts getting clobbered. And this is when we start to get— like, Tien is just sort of like, “No, I'm doing this because I'm winning for real,” [laughs] and then it’s towards the start of the next episode when Tien kind of figures it out and is really the breaking point for his character, in terms of, like, the teachings of the Crane School and his opinion of Master Shen, et cetera.
Jack: Yeah. Tien is sort of holding back from killing Goku. He believes that doing so will cause him to lose this match, and we just get some full-on Zoldyck family dialogue from Master Shen. “Make no mistake, you are a killer. Or do you forsake your destiny? You have the destiny of a killer,” [Keith laughs quietly] says Master Shen to Tien Shinhan.
Keith: Yeah, so one of the things that’s unclear at first is not only is Chiaotzu freezing Goku, he’s also, like, keeping him on the ground, basically, while the clock counts up, and so, like, Goku has to get up but can't move, and this is sort of where Tien figures out what’s happening, while Master Crane is, like, telling him, like, “No, while he’s on the ground, kill him,” and he’s like, “I don't want to. I know I wanted to kill him, but now, I want to win the match.”
Sylvia: Yeah, and “if I killed him, I'd lose!” is, like, a big thing too.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Right? Am I…
Keith: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Yeah, no, you're right.
Sylvia: I'm remembering that right, right? Okay, cool.
Keith: Yeah, if he kills him, he loses. Is this where Crane turns to Chiaotzu, because Tien shouts at them, and he breaks concentration?
Jack: Yes, Tien figures out [Dre: Yeah.] that you shouldn't— that they’re cheating on his behalf, and says, “Don't do that.” And Master Shen is like, “All right, fine, I don't care. Get him, Chiaotzu. Regardless of whether or not Tien is interested in this, I need you to do the paralysis,” and Chiaotzu—credit to the lad, credit to the little guy—says, “No, my loyalty lies with Tien, and I'm not gonna do that.” And Master Shen goes to, I think, kill him, right? Or…
Keith: Yeah, I think that…yeah, yeah. Yeah, he’s gonna kill him.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: When Master Roshi charges a Kamehameha and blasts him out of the arena to save Chiaotzu!
Keith: It’s pretty sick.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: This is lovely.
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: This is great, and it is putting all the legwork in place to get us to the invariable point that we are working to, [Keith: Yeah.] which is Chiaotzu and Tien Shinhan are on our team.
Keith: It’s so smooth the way, like— it starts off a little clunky with the match between Roshi and Tien. It seems to, I think, without the background of Dragon Ball sort of couching it a little bit, it’s easy to get, like, why is Roshi talking about, like, “don't be evil,” and, you know, “it’s suffocating your potential if you follow the Crane guy,” blah blah blah. But like, after that first little bit and we're, like, watching Tien thinking about this before the match, like, meditating on it, getting angry, doing, like, a real sort of Jedi Dark Side/Light Side thing and then watching the Crane Hermit sort of being practical, like putting into practical use their evilness and then that sort of leading itself to being like, “Well, it’s not even about you, Tien. Like, I need this to be done. I don't have the same sort of faith in you that you have in me,” and having that just sort of, like, shatter his confidence in his master is, like, I think it’s really really well done. It goes down very smooth.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah. It happens quite quickly. I mean, he wanted so badly to kill Goku. The move here does happen quite quickly, but I think that is the genre space that it is working in.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And I think, to your point, the steps that they take to get us there work really well.
Keith: And then there’s this part where it’s, like, breaking from the Crane School is one thing, but then the slide from here to the moment at the end of episode 19 or actually in the middle of episode 19. That is, like, another sort of, like, gentle trip, where it’s sort of, like, fully bringing Tien into the fold as, like, another part of this that they’ve gotta do, like, to stick the landing.
Jack: Yeah. It’s just nice plotting, character plotting. It works really well. We're tidying all this stuff up in the ring, but there's still a fight to do, and this is fun, because we have dispensed with the ideology. [Sylvia laughs] The ideological conflict is almost completely…
Keith: Right, so they've still got to— they still have to do the actual fight.
Jack: Resolved.
Keith: They've done the fighting that solves the argument. Now they get to have, like, the real match is, like, I think how even Goku understands it this way.
Jack: Tien starts powering up, and the guy at the ring, me at the WWE, ways, “I don't know what this move is, but it’s definitely difficult!”
Keith: Oh, there's one thing that’s fun. Tien calls it paying his debts. He lets Goku get in, like, a flurry of intense blows on him.
Sylvia: Oh my god! 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: He does the thing where it’s like, oh shit, my controller wasn't working at the beginning of a Street Fighter round or something, where like, [Dre laughs] “Oh, okay, I'll just let you get your— like, match our health up, and then [Keith: Yeah.] we'll start for real.”
Keith: Roshi calls it a noble gesture, which it was, because I was thinking— I had forgot about that, and I was just like, I remembered the end, and I was like, “Well, this is null and void, because it’s clear that the match wasn't even.” I forgot that they factor that into it.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Sorry, but Jack, Tien’s powering up, and what totally normal thing does he do?
Jack: Oh.
Keith: He probably does another, uh, he probably does another Solar Flare or something?
Jack: Chiaotzu says, “Yeah, the Four Witches Technique!” [quiet laughter] Hell yeah. I didn't know what this was going to be.
Sylvia: What did you think it was, just from the name? Did you, like, have an idea at all, or just…because I straight up— I hear “four witches,” and I'm like,”He’s gonna cast more spells? Like, what’s going on here?”
Jack: I wanted Four Witches to have been— [laughs quietly]
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I wanted Four Witches—
Dre: Four Baba Yagas are gonna show up.
Jack: Well, yes, I—
Keith: If you're really into witches, it’s a little disappointing.
Jack: Yes, and the problem is—
Keith: If you're really into Machamp from Pokémon, it’s very good.
Dre: Yeah. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: So, some of my favorite Sailor Moon villains are called…the Witches 5? The Witches 5?
Sylvia: Oh, wait. I think you've shown a screenshot of this when they become the Witches 4.
Jack: Yes. [laughs] Yes. They— the door to their office gets, um…they, like, paste over the door to their office. But the Witches 5 have— no. Is it the Witches 5? Yes. The Witches 5 are a subgroup of the Death Busters and their loyal servants. 
Dre: Sure.
Jack: They have a big thing on their door that says “The Witches 5”, and I think that when I heard the Four Witches Technique, I was like, I'm so excited to see these guys. The witches are going to show up.
Sylvia: The Witches 4? They're here?
Jack: However…
Sylvia: However.
Episode 100 [1:45:24]
Jack: Instead, uh, he grows four arms. [laughs] Or rather, he grows two more arms, giving himself a maximum of four arms. I think this is fun. He gets into some classic fighting here. He grabs Goku’s hands and Goku’s legs, and then Goku is like, “You didn't grab my tail,” and he beats him up with his tail, in a thing that looks so silly in the wide shot [Sylvia laughs] that they hold off showing us the wide shot for as long as possible. We have the closeup of Goku hitting Tien Shinhan with his tail a bunch, and then…
Keith: It’s really funny.
Jack: We have to cut to a wide shot eventually, and you can tell that they regret it just immediately. [Jack and Keith laugh]
Keith: It is funny, because they do two different things to, like, make this not as sort of theoretically stupid as it is practically stupid. The first thing happens during the Krillin fight, which we missed, but I think that they include it in the recap, which is that his tail was, for a long time, not just a weak spot for Goku but basically an off button. If you grabbed him by the tail, he would just, like, go completely slack.
Jack: Hmm.
Keith: And so, when Krillin grabs it during their fight, as a dirty trick, 'cause he knows about this weakness of Goku’s, Goku’s like, “I trained my tail, so it’s not my weakness anymore. Bleh!” [Jack laughs quietly] And the other thing is, during his fight with his grandfather, the same thing happens. His grandfather grabs his tail and is like, you know, “You know I always told you to train your weak points,” and he's like, “Okay,” and he’s like, “You train your tail,” and he’s like, “Okay, I will.” So I'm imagining the only way this is possible for him is, from having been scolded by his grandfather, going and, you know, lifting weights with his tail for three years. [Jack and Sylvia laugh]
Sylvia: Doing tail curls.
Keith: Doing tail curls, yeah.
Dre: Uh huh.
Jack: It works out great.
Keith: It does.
Jack: It works out great.
Keith: [voice] “Your tail packs quite a sting.”
Jack: That’s what he says, as we cut to the stupidest wide shot I've ever seen.
Sylvia: That was a good Tien.
Keith: Thank you.
Jack: That was a good Tien. Now turn the goblin dial up. [laughs] 
Keith: [goblin voice] “Your tail packs quite a sting.” [Dre laughs]
Jack: Pretty good! Pretty good.
Sylvia: Ah.
Keith: You can catch King of the Castle on friendsatthetable.com/youtu— nope. 
Sylvia: Ooh.
Keith: [laughs] Youtube.com/friendsatthetab— eh, we bought YouTube. Yeah, we bought Alphabet. [Jack laughs]
Sylvia: God damn.
Keith: Youtube.com/friendsatthetable.
Jack: It was great. King of the Castle is great. Uh, I was hoping Goku would get more arms, and he does. Goku then does—
Keith: It’s so funny.
Jack: Well, if I can't do four arms, I'm gonna do eight! 
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And he immediately produces eight arms. He makes himself look like an asterisk. [Keith and Sylvia laugh] He is just surrounded by arms. I was worried that these arms would be an illusion, like a…
Keith: They were!
Jack: They were?
Keith: Yeah, they totally were.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: They don't—
Sylvia: He was just moving his arms real fast.
Keith: He was just moving his arms real— that’s why in the next shot he already doesn't have them anymore, 'cause he stopped. I wrote, “Goku just—”
Sylvia: It’s also why they're always sort of wiggling.
Jack: Oh, yeah.
Sylvia: If you look at the arms in the shot.
Keith: I wrote, “Goku just joking around with eight arms for a laugh,” comma, “no one gets it.” [laughs] 
Jack: He should have done more than eight.
Keith: Yeah. [laughs] 
Jack: And he punches Tien a bunch. Lots more fighting. Four arms versus eight arms. It’s all terribly exciting. Tien says— 'cause now they’re kind of friends, and they can kind of joke around a bit. Tien says, [voice] “Should you get tired of losing, you'd make a great chiropractor!” There’s, like, an extended beat, and then Goku says, “What’s a chiropractor?” [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Well, isn't that after— that’s after he— is that after he puts him in the Boston Crab for, like, five full minutes?
Jack: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: Oh, this is—
Jack: Yeah, we get a lot of his.
Keith: Okay, gotcha.
Dre: [cross] Yeah, he puts him in the Walls of Jericho.
Sylvia: [cross] That’s the wrestling move that he puts him in where he, like, has both his legs, and he’s got Tien’s back.
Keith: Before the tail. Before the tail whips. Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. Yeah. That’s, I believe, when the chiropractor line gets dropped.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Are we at the— are we at the Tri-Beam? Is that the next thing that happens?
Jack: Yes.
Dre: I just want to also say: I really feel bad for Oolong, who is just [Sylvia laughs] abused constantly, including getting fingers shoved up his nose?
Jack: Yeah, why are they fighting this pig so much? [Dre sighs]
Sylvia: They're just so excited.
Keith: He’s even grosser than Master Roshi. That’s why.
Jack: Is he really?
Dre: Oh.
Sylvia: That is true.
Keith: Yeah, the pig is terrible.
Dre: Oh, you're right.
Sylvia: Has he done his wish at this point?
Keith: That was season one, yes.
Sylvia: Okay. Yeah, he wish— they get the Dragon Balls. Do you want to guess what the pig wishes for?
Jack: Hot ladies.
Sylvia: Oh, close. Just their underwear.
Jack: [exasperated] Oh my god. Okay. Sure.
Keith: So, they find the pig terrorizing a small town. He has shapeshifted into a monster and is, like, basically asking for the town’s women to, like, come and be his slaves, and Goku easily beats him up, because he is really nothing and nobody but for some reason follows Goku around until he meets, I guess, a kindred spirit in Master Roshi [laughs quietly] and just decides, “I'm gonna live here with this guy.”
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Great. Yeah, he’s like, like recognize like.
Keith: Yeah. And to his credit…? Strike that. Coincidentally happens to never really be gross again, despite being absolutely [Jack: Huh.] worse than Roshi when they first meet him.
Jack: Opened gross.
Keith: Opened gross and then just becomes a pig.
Sylvia: He got it out of his system.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Okay. Interesting. Interesting.
Keith: [realizing] He’s a literal pig. He’s a literal and figurative pig.
Sylvia: Yes.
Jack: Wow.
Keith: Wow.
Jack: He’s a literal and figurative pig!
Keith: Wow.
Sylvia: Wow.
Jack: Um, let’s see. Okay. Now, Tien Shinhan has decided that he’s going to use the triple beam, a move so dangerous that—correct me if I'm wrong—if you fuck it up, it can kill both you and your opponent.
Keith: Yes.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Don't use this, Tien.
Sylvia: They talk about how it, like, takes his life energy to use it, as well.
Keith: Yeah. He says to Goku, he says, “I no longer wish to kill you. When the time comes, avoid it.” No one knows that “it” is, but Chiaotzu and Master Roshi both immediately figure out what’s coming, and this is where Roshi explains to Krillin— and this is a great little bit of sort of, like, watching. It’s sort of like an introduction to the concept of an unreliable narrator, [Jack chuckles] because Roshi goes, “It rivals the Kamehameha but is more dangerous to use. It shortens the user’s life with each use,” and then, after he uses it, it cuts back to Roshi, and he goes, “I was wrong to judge my wave against this!”
Jack: It’s too powerful, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It is…
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: It is unbelievably powerful.
Keith: And it’s very cool. He, like, flies up into the air, because Tien can fly and Goku can't, and so he’s sort of unreachable up there, and he, like, puts his hands into a triangle and sort of, like, focuses on the ring, on the shape of the ring and on Goku within the ring, and there’s a whole— there’s a real hubbub charging it up, crackling lightning and everything’s flashing gold and stuff, and when it goes off, the ring is gone. It is a bottomless pit, perfect ring shaped hole.
Jack: It turns it into a— I love it. It was great.
Keith: It’s so good.
Jack: It was so cool.
Keith: The Tri-Beam is famous and a fan favorite, because, well after being sort of sidelined by Goku and by the, you know, not being able to compete with the villains of the story, [Dre: Mm-hmm.] Tien’s sort of final thing that he gets to do in the show is, uh…Jack, do you know Cell?
Jack: Uh, I recognize the name only as a character from Dragon Ball. Let me look up a picture of him.
Keith: There’s— Cell has several different forms, but you'll probably see them all on a Google image search, but he is, like, an android creature made by the—
Dre: A Bio-Android.
Keith: He’s a Bio-Android made by the sort of scraps of the Red Ribbon Army [Jack: Hmm.] using DNA collected from all of the different Z Warriors, which is what they call Goku and his friends.
Jack: Oh, yes, of course.
Sylvia: Weak-ass name, by the way.
Keith: Yeah, it’s weak.
Sylvia: Z Warriors? Weak as fuck.
Keith: It’s weak as fuck, yeah. Uh, the…the thing that he does, then, is he goes and devours whole towns full of people, and they basically add to his strength, and so then he wants to go and swallow stronger people to add more to his strength.
Jack: Mm, mm-hmm.
Keith: And so they’re desperately trying to keep him away from two other androids that would be really, really bad if he ate.
Jack: Okay.
Keith: While they wait for Goku to get out of the Hyperbolic Time Chamber, which we referenced last episode. 
Jack: Yes.
Keith: That’s the room where you can spend a year, and it’s only an hour. So while they wait for Goku to come out of there, Tien basically keeps Cell in check by Tri-Beaming him into a hole for, like…basically almost killing himself by doing it over and over again. Very cool dramatic scene.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: It rules. It’s one of the best [Jack: Wow.] things anybody’s done in Dragon Ball Z. It was great. Love it.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Big Tien fan.
Keith: Yeah, big Tien fan.
Dre: Tien rules.
Jack: What a guy. 
Keith: Tien Fan-han. [quiet laughter] 
Sylvia: Fuck off. [Keith laughs]
Jack: Love that guy. I am a little curious about why he is doing this move if it is so unbelievably dangerous.
Sylvia: Trying to force a ring out. It’s why he tells him to dodge it too, right?
Keith: Yeah. He doesn't want to kill him, but if he destroys the ring, then once they land, it’s over. 
Sylvia: He wins, yeah.
Keith: He wins.
Sylvia: ‘Cause he can fly, too.
Dre: Because he can fly, and Goku can't. Yeah.
Jack: I see. “I don't want to kill you. When it happens, dodge it,” is a bit like “I don't want to kill you. When I fire the gun at you, dodge it,” but I guess Goku is very strong.
Keith: Goku is literally faster than a gun, so.
Dre: Goku could dodge a gun. Yeah.
Jack: Well, the—
Sylvia: This is like if you said that to the guy whose whole thing was dodging bullets fired from guns.
Jack: Yeah, that’s true. Also, this show has a very low opinion about the dangerousness of guns. Lunch spends most of this episode producing— like, most of the Lunch gags in this episode are her producing [Dre: Uh huh.] automatic weapons and firing them into a crowd, which is…people sort of run and scream, but compared to, like, the Kamehameha, it’s not really— guns are not really a big deal.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: [cross] Is this because you could shoot—
Keith: [cross] The camera of the show has a higher power— too high of a power level to be concerned with normal humans.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Yes, absolutely. Although the normal humans are just drawn so lovingly. All the background characters in this show look amazing. We had fox people, polar bear people, humans in cool outfits, demons. It’s great. All the crowd shots are just wonderful, and—
Keith: Everyone is either wearing the coolest thing you've ever seen, the goofiest thing you've ever seen, or is dressed like the, like, platonic ideal of a tourist.
Jack: Yes, and we talked about this a bit in the last episode, but I love the way Hunter × Hunter goes even further with this, right? To just being like, you can't tell who is going to be an important character, because it might be Green Green Jellybean Man, it might be the ape. You know, you can't tell if…
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: You can't tell if you're going to see Gittarackur, when you meet him for the first time, for one future episode or, you know, whatever. I love the crowds in Hunter × Hunter, [Keith: Yeah.] and I love the crowds here.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: I feel like we've talked about this on the main show, but we haven't even begun to see Hunter × Hunter’s weirdos yet, right?
Sylvia: No, not even close.
Keith: I— oh—
Jack: Even setting aside the Phantom Troupe, who I've seen.
Keith: Well, okay, so yes, not even close, but we are close to a cavalcade of new weirdos.
Sylvia: We're about to begin.
Jack: If it’s the Phantom Troupe, I've seen them already.
Sylvia: [cross] Yeah, but you haven't seen them.
Keith: [cross] Well, but you haven't seen them.
Jack: [laughs quietly] Okay, that’s true. How many are there? 13? 15?
Keith: 13.
Sylvia: Uh…
Jack: I feel like we've been given a number, of like—
Sylvia: No, it’s an even number.
Jack: X members of the Phantom Troupe.
Sylvia: Or…
Keith: Well, are we including Chrollo?
Sylvia: Oh, if I'm including Chrollo, you're right, because he’s the head of the spider.
Jack: [gasps] That’s a— now that’s a spoiler.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: What if Chrollo had just been a guy in the Phantom Troupe who was just chatting with them in that moment? 
Sylvia: [cross] You're right, it is 13. My bad.
Jack: [cross] No, you don't design a character who looks like that and…
Sylvia: No.
Jack: 13 plus Chrollo?
Sylvia: Yeah. 13 including Chrollo. He’s on my desk right now.
Jack: Oh yeah, your—! Sylvi’s got a Chrollo Nendoroid.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, so, first of all, that image only had, like, eight or nine of them in it.
Jack: Wait, really?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: There’s more Phantom Troupe members that I haven't seen?
Keith: Yeah, you have not— yeah, yeah. [Jack gasps]
Sylvia: Oh, you got no idea.
Keith: And—
Jack: Oh my god. Was, um…what’s her name, Machi? The doctor?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah. You met Machi.
Jack: Was she in that image? No, she wasn't, right?
Sylvia: Uh…I don't remember.
Dre: I don't remember.
Keith: Yeah, I couldn't tell you.
Jack: Okay. Fair enough! [laughs quietly] Fair enough. This speaks to the quality and the density of the weirdos.
Keith: Yeah. Well, I could tell you if she’s a member of the Phantom Troupe. I just couldn't tell you if she’s in that picture.
Jack: Right, yes.
Sylvia: [laughs quietly] Which we have confirmed because of the show.
Jack: I believe she is our first official onscreen member of the Phantom Troupe. I previously thought Hisoka was the first onscreen member, but, [gasps] because of his trick!
Keith: Mm.
Sylvia: He’s— mm-hmm.
Keith: Well…
Sylvia: He’s being sneaky again.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Crazy how he does that.
Jack: Crazy how he does that.
Keith: “Hisoka × is × Sneaky”. The title told us.
Jack: Hisoka is sneaky. And as his— it’s his name, right?
Keith: Yes.
Jack: Literally means sneaky.
Keith: It literally means sneaky, we learned from, uh…someone left a comment somewhere. I can't remember right now, unfortunately.
Jack: I would not call Hisoka’s primary adjective sneaky.
Sylvia: Uh…
Keith: His motives are sneaky.
Jack: That’s true.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: He is manipulative.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, no arguments here.
Keith: Yeah, no arguments.
Jack: [sarcastic] I'm gonna make a controversial statement that you won't hear on any of these other podcasts: I think Hisoka’s kind of a bad dude. [Keith laughs]
Sylvia: Holy fuck. 
Jack: All right, move— [laughs] 
Keith: Whoa!
Jack: Moving on.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: Whoa! Let’s slow down, hey! [laughs] 
Keith: Tri-Beam is sick. I wrote it right here in my notes. The Tri-Beam is fucking sick.
Sylvia: Oh, it rules.
Jack: After all the buildup to some of the earlier moves in this fight amounting to, you know, a 25 second strobe light effect, that when it clears everyone’s lying face down on the ground?
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: The fact that this move ends with the complete obliteration of the entire arena into a bottomless hole into the Earth [Keith: Yeah.] is a really good escalation [Dre laughs] of, you know, like, violent stakes.
Keith: There’s something about the fact that it’s a perfect cutout. Like, he didn't miss one inch of the stage.
Sylvia: No.
Keith: And he didn't get one extra inch.
Sylvia: Perfect control.
Keith: It’s pure [Dre: Sure.] stage deleted.
Dre: Well, and I wonder too if that is supposed to be, like, an extension of this idea that Tien is more powerful now that he is, like, fighting for good and moral reasons, as opposed to evil reasons.
Keith: Yeah, I wonder. I wonder what…
Jack: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, maybe he would have used, uh…
Sylvia: I believe that.
Keith: He wouldn't have been so deliberate in his aim.
Dre: Yeah. Evil Tien would have blown up the stadium. Who cares?
Jack: Because, correct me if I'm wrong, like, kind of central to shonen combat ideology is that you will only get better at fighting the…more virtuous you are, [laughs quietly] or like, the better of a person you are. There is no— you know, if you turn to good, and you renounce evil—
Dre: I think virtuous is the right word.
Jack: You will become a better fighter, because those things are linked.
Sylvia: Yeah, there’s— I mean, a whole thing about this is, like, the nobility of a fair fight. Like, that is [Jack: Mm-hmm.] so integral to what goes on between Goku and Tien here.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Also think, like, worth mentioning that, like, it’s a good parallel to in our first set of episodes, where Tien purposely fires at the crowd, right? Doesn't he?
Keith: Yeah, he does.
Jack: He does, yes.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Dre: Oh, yeah.
Keith: He shoots a Kamehameha into the crowd.
Jack: Right, he uses the Kamehameha. It’s very exciting.
Keith: One of the only non, uh…it happens a few times. Cell also does it, for obvious reasons, [Sylvia: Mm-hmm.] because he’s stolen DNA.
Jack: What, civilians getting hit by a—
Keith: No, no.
Jack: Oh, no.
Keith: The non-Hermit school— non-Turtle Hermit School students knowing the Kamehameha and using it.
Sylvia: Ginyu does, right?
Jack: Is it because it’s like a secret recipe, or…?
Keith: Um, I don't know.
Sylvia: Uh…
Keith: Because really it’s not— really all of them are just, it’s all, like, rule of cool stuff, where it’s like, these are all just different shaped energy things. They move at different speeds, they’re different colors, but it’s all the same stuff basically.
Jack: As opposed to Togashi’s massive amount of legwork that goes into speaking to the distinct different types of Nen.
Keith: Yes, yeah, and that we've barely scratched the surface of.
Sylvia: Yeah, I mean…
Keith: Where, yeah, there is a fundamental difference to Nen powers than there are to, like, you know, Final Flash or Masenko or Kamehameha or Tri-Beam or all of these are, like, different shapes of explosions. [laughs quietly] 
Jack: Yes, and while the— at least so far, and I realize that we're so early in the kind of Nen journey. So far, the differentiation in Nen has been about sort of personal technique, right?
Keith: Uh huh.
Jack: There are, what, the Nen is a four step—? Yeah. Yes, it is a four step process. Shingen-ryu.
Keith: Yes, yeah, four. Yeah, four.
Sylvia: Uh…yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: But the main differentiation comes in the, like, seven steps of the Nen wheel of how you use it, right? Of like, uh, fucking [Keith: Yeah.] transcoders and like, you know. [laughs] I'm trying to name a single one!
Keith: Emitter.
Jack: Gun to my head. Jack, name a single Nen power. Yes, Emitters.
Keith: Manipulators.
Jack: Tricksters, Manipulators. That stuff, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: It is about application of the Nen power. But…
Keith: Right, and identifying what your sort of innate leaning is.
Jack: Your star sign is, right?
Keith: Yeah, you have to learn your star sign, and then—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: And then, uh, one other thing about astrology.
Jack: Whereas it seems so far that Dragon Ball is like…yes, it’s different kinds of fireball, and you get to choose the different kind of fireball but not even the different kind of school of fireball, just the fireball itself. 
Keith: Yes. Right, yeah, there's no…
Sylvia: Yeah, pretty much.
Keith: Like, there’s some of— you know, we have— you've never seen a Destructo Disc. That’s pretty— that is a sort of unique one where Krillin can slice you in half with a cool disc-shaped thing that he throws like a frisbee, and like, we talked about Piccolo’s Special Beam Cannon that can, like, that has— that can penetrate, and that’s sort of unique. But yeah, it really is…there’s super high level concepts. There’s very little low level detail work going on into different people’s powers. It’s sort of— it’s more of a call sign than an ability.
Sylvia: Uh…
Jack: I had really hoped— oh, sorry, did you have something?
Sylvia: No, I was gonna say you don't need to watch this now, but I'm linking you a Destructo Disc clip so you can check it out later.
Dre: Oh, so good.
Jack: Hell yeah. I'm excited. The video here is— this is by the user Destructo Disc x2. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: And the title is “Krillin’s First Destructo Disc. Almost Kills Nappa.” Okay.
Sylvia: The description is, “Just a Krillin DBZ Stan.” [Keith laughs] Like, hell yeah, man. I was too.
Jack: Good for you.
Keith: Oh, this must be Android 18. This is Android 18’s account.
Sylvia: Aww.
Dre: Yeah, sure.
Sylvia: I'm gonna subscribe.
Dre: Or Marron’s. It’s Marron’s account.
Keith: Oh, it could be Marron’s account.
Sylvia: Aww. [cross] That would be way cuter.
Keith: [cross] Wait, which Maron? His ex-girlfriend or his daughter?
Dre: Yeah. Yeah, here’s the thing about—
Sylvia: Oh my god. Right.
Dre: Here’s the thing about Krillin, Jack, you should know, is that Krillin has a girlfriend named Maron who is drawn to be, like, the hottest woman who has ever existed in the universe? [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: Right, it’s like, what if we made Bulma hotter on purpose?
Sylvia: What if we gave Bulma a boob job?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Like…
Jack: Okay.
Dre: Yeah, here. I'm gonna link an image. This is Maron with one R. Krillin dates her briefly.
Jack: Okay.
Dre: When Krillin later gets married to his wife, Android 18, they have a daughter, and that daughter’s name is Marron with two R’s.
Sylvia: Named after Marc Maron. [Keith laughs] Clearly.
Jack: Oh, of the podcast. 
Dre: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jack: Right, right, right.
Sylvia: Just not actually, uh…
Jack: Right.
Sylvia: No relation to his ex-girlfriend at all.
Jack: To the first Maron. I see, I see, I see.
Sylvia: He’s just a big podcaster guy.
Jack: See, I had previously thought that Marron 2 was the daughter of Krillin and Maron 1, and I was about to be like, “Lots of people name their children after themselves.” However…
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Do you know what Krillin’s wife’s name is?
Jack: No.
Sylvia: Do you want to guess?
Dre: Oh, I thought I just said it.
Jack: Oh.
Keith: We did, but I think it didn't even-
Jack: Yes, yes, you did. Krillin’s wife’s name is Andr— I so nearly said Andrew. [Jack and Sylvia laugh quietly]
Dre: That’s me! Yep.
Jack: Andrew 18.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Android 18.
Keith: Yep.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Is she an android?
Dre: Yeah. So, they just call her 18.
Keith: Yeah, she’s an android, yeah.
Sylvia: They call her 18. Uh, another one of Toriyama inventing the perfect woman and then not giving her anything to do.
Dre: Fashion icon Android 18.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Oh, she doesn't even look like a robot.
Keith: They give her something to do. It’s marry Krillin and then be mean to everyone.
Sylvia: It’s marry Krillin and have— yeah, and then also sort of, like— no, she gets some stuff during the World Tournament Arc that’s fun, actually.
Keith: Yeah, and she’s in, uh…
Dre: Yeah, she gets a lot of stuff in Super.
Keith: She has a lot of stuff in Super.
Jack: Huh. Okay.
Sylvia: I'm just really quickly gonna link this image of them as a family, and you can enjoy that, Jack. 
Dre: [laughs] It rules! It’s so good!
Jack: That’s a— wait. Wait.
Sylvia: What’s up?
Jack: Krillin got hair?
Sylvia: Yeah, Krillin got hair.
Keith: Yeah, it is a big reveal during a Dragon Ball Z timeskip that he has been shaving his head this whole time.
Sylvia: Yeah, 'cause he’s a monk!
Keith: Yeah. 'Cause he’s a monk.
Dre: Yeah, it’s—
Jack: He’s a mafioso baby. Please.
Dre: And then it’s like, it helps him in fights, because people can't grab his hair.
Sylvia: And then he started growing his hair out, because his wife liked it.
Jack: Aww!
Keith: This is a great scene, because this is them actually entering the, like, 30th World Martial Arts Tournament, when they're all adults.
Jack: On Papaya Island.
Keith: And— actually, I don't know where it is. It might still be on Papaya Island. But they all show up, and everyone is like, “We can't let them know how strong we are! We've gotta take it easy!” and, uh… [Dre laughs] Android 18 is, like, not having it and destroys the little thing that tests how strong you are to then categorize you in a thing [Sylvia: Yeah.] with, like, a flick. [Keith and Jack laugh] It’s so funny.
Sylvia: It’s great. There is so much of her just being like, “I don't get why you guys are— what’s the point of all this, like, social nicety shit?”
Keith: And she’s right.
Sylvia: And she’s right, and I adore her.
Keith: She’s right. It causes [Dre: Yeah.] only problems for everyone that they pretend to not be superheroes.
Episode 101 [2:08:55]
Jack: I had really hoped Goku and Tien were gonna fight in a big cave. [Keith laughs] I had thought…
Sylvia: Oh, yeah.
Jack: That we would go down into this amazing cavern or this, like, room carved down into the Earth by the horrible power, and we were gonna have a cave fight, and it would have been…this is me doing the Hunter × Hunter thing of predicting kind of what happens but sort of at the wrong angle. It would have been really good to isolate them from the crowd so that they could talk to each other, you know, away from the crowd, and this does kind of end up happening, because instead, it turns out that Goku has…jumped?
Keith: Yeah. I think that Tien and Roshi are right that if Goku had not dodged this he would have been vaporized, probably.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Yes. Goku has jumped, I don't know, let’s say 10,000 feet into the air.
Dre: [laughs quietly] It’s pretty tall.
Jack: 15,000 feet. Something like that.
Keith: Something like that, yes. Something crazy.
Sylvia: Eh, no…you’re not wrong.
Jack: Hmm?
Sylvia: You're not wrong. That is the vibe. That is— I don't think that’s that far off.
Jack: Yeah, we get these beautiful shots of the ring down below, and it looks like a view from an airplane. They are way up there.
Keith: They spend multiple minutes in freefall.
Jack: Yes, because Goku is falling. Goku cannot fly, for some reason. Presumably just because he can't. That’s notable, though. I suppose I would have thought that he would have learned to do that. Oh, he has that cloud. The has the Flying Nimbus.
Keith: He has the Flying Nimbus. They do all learn to fly, at some point. Tien basically is the one that teaches everyone how to fly.
Jack: Okay, Tien’s been able to fly from the off. It’s three-eye, previously-was-evil power.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: If you have three eyes and you previously were evil, you can fly. Tien jumps up—
Sylvia: Also if you're a little clown, because Chiaotzu can fly.
Dre: Sure.
Jack: Chiaotzu— oh, Chiaotzu has two eyes and was previously evil, or was Chiaotzu good the whole time? I think Chiaotzu’s got a good heart, just in with the wrong crowd.
Keith: I think Chiaotzu’s too dumb to be good or evil.
Jack: Yeah.
Sylvia: Chiaotzu called Krillin a slur in the first… [laughs quietly] 
Jack: Oh, that’s true.
Sylvia: Worth reminding for people.
Jack: That is true.
Dre: But, you know, who taught it to Chiaotzu?
Keith: Right, Master…
Sylvia: Herman Crane.
Keith: Herman Crane.
Jack: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah. [laughs] 
Jack: Fuck that guy.
Sylvia: Fuck that guy.
Keith: Fucking GOP candidates once again teaching people to say slurs.
Jack: It’s true.
Keith: And then dying of COVID. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: So, they are both falling.
Dre: RIP bozo.
Jack: They’re both falling kind of together, and they have this chat, you know, essentially being like, “Good work dodging. Now, of course, you are going to lose this fight, because you can't fly, and I can, and we're just gonna fall outside of the ring.” And Goku realizes, well, no, hang on, it’s actually who hits the ground first, and so he begins to use the Kamehameha [pronounced KA-may-HA-may-HA] or the Kamehameha [ka-MAY-ha-MAY-ha] to propel himself around in the air and kind of get an advantage over Tien, in a fight in the air as he's falling. This is fucking sick. This is just— this is exciting.
Keith: Yeah, it’s great.
Jack: I like to see this animated on my television.
Keith: Big headbutt. Love it. Love a headbutt.
Sylvia: Oh, the headbutt’s so good.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: That’s a…the headbutt feels like that was something that Togashi was like, “Ah, what if Gon did this too?”
Keith: It is a strong but dumb protagonist classic in shonen [Sylvia: Yeah.] to do a headbutt.
Sylvia: I mean, yeah.
Keith: To have a hard head, to have, like, an— oh, I've done— you know, normally this would hurt even me, but my head is so hard that it’s nothing.
Sylvia: That’s Gon Freecss in a sentence right there.
Keith: That’s Gon Freecss, yeah.
Jack: That is Gon Freecss. Yeah, we're not making this up. Gon headbutts with enough consistency that it is a character hallmark, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Oh, yeah, no. Like, his brain bounces around in that skull constantly. [Jack laughs quietly]
Keith: Or is it so big, so stuffed with fighting genius, that it’s—
Sylvia: [laughs] That it’s always pressed against the walls of his skull?
Keith: It’s pressed against the walls of his skull and protected.
Sylvia: I think that’s how brains work.
Jack: I think Gon has quite a small brain, and I don't say that to, you know, lessen his intelligence or his capacity. I say that in the same way as my cat Virginia has a small brain, because she cares so deeply and so strongly about a small number of things.
Keith: Mm.
Sylvia: Mm.
Jack: Goku cares about Killua.
Keith: Right.
Sylvia: Yeah, same.
Jack: Well, he cares about his friends.
Keith: Right.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Jack: But within that, he cares about Killua specifically.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: He cares about fighting.
Keith: Yep.
Jack: He cares about his dad.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: He cares about Aunt Mito.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: And he cares about, like…doing the right thing. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: And those are actually all the same things that Virginia cares about, right?
Jack: Yeah, absolutely. Virginia— [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Huge Killua fan.
Jack: Virginia’s an immense Killua fan. Every time Killua’s on the TV, she stands up on two legs and speaks like a human. [Sylvia laughs] At this point—
Keith: She says, “I love this guy.”
Jack: In that exact voice. It’s really odd, and that’s the only thing she says. She won't communicate further. 
Keith: [laughs] Please. Please, Virginia, explain yourself.
Sylvia: And she has the exact voice of the Dragon Ball narrator.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, no communication about food or about other, you know, wants or needs. It’s just, “I like this guy!” when she sees Killua. [Keith laughs] At this point, the announcer has had enough of this and pops— is this a little Capsule Corp thing?
Keith: This is— 
Jack: Is this my first?
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Keith: Yeah, this is Bulma’s parents’ company. 
Jack: I can see why—
Keith: He basically throws an aspirin on the ground, and it becomes a little plane bike.
Jack: But not just any little plane bike.
Keith: A World War II fighter plane with the painted dragon face.
Jack: It’s got a little— [laughs quietly] it’s got a little painted dragon or shark face on it, [Dre laughs] and he flies it up there. This guy…
Keith: Committed.
Jack: Look, he might not understand— yes, he might not understand fighting.
Sylvia: He’s a showman.
Jack: But he’s a showman, and he’s prepared to put his life on the line. Oh, I don't know. Are Capsule Corp stuff safe?
Keith: Yeah. Very safe.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: He’s in safe hands on this thing. Okay. Cool. Up he goes, as they fight and they fall, and we get my absolutely favorite piece of animation in all these episodes that we've watched, as—
Keith: Yep. Yep, I mentioned this right at the beginning too.
Jack: This is just astonishing animation.
Keith: Oh, real quick. I want to backtrack just a tiny little bit. Before the headbutt, there’s a very genuine sort of Goku line that I really love where he goes— they’re in the air. Tien laughs, seeing Goku didn't die, sort of like happily laughs, and then Goku goes, “There’s no way I could have been prepared to dodge that if you hadn't warned me. Thank you!” 
Jack: [laughs] He’s great.
Keith: Yeah. And then, yeah, and then this awesome shot.
Jack: Yeah. So, the easiest way to describe this is it is a faked 3D shot. That is to say we are moving into the frame, [Dre: Mm-hmm.] in towards the vanishing point, faked in the same way that Animal Crossing does it or fakes an open world by essentially, like, rolling a log? Does what I'm saying make sense?
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Animal Crossing’s world is, like, built on this rolling drum, essentially.
Keith: Sure, yeah. Yeah.
Jack: That you move around the surface of. And we get this amazing shot, as they fall and as we move, you know, deeper into the scene, [Keith: Yeah.] with all the scenery coming rolling towards us over a horizon as we kind of move across it. It is gorgeous.
Keith: Yeah. It’s a very cool shot. It’s, like, yeah, I don't know how they— I guess maybe you have— it’s sort of like everything moving, animating outwards from the vanishing point with new stuff showing up in the center and then animating outwards to make it look like you're moving forward into it is maybe what it is? But yeah, it’s amazing. It’s so good.
Jack: Do they do a particular sort of animation move like this often?
Keith: No, I don't think so. I don't think so. 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: I think that the show does— it will have, like, setpiece animations, but this feels unique to me.
Jack: It’s great.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And it looks like Goku is about to sort of land second and win, but instead he just smashes head first into a delivery truck.
Keith: [laughing] Yeah, he does!
Jack: Knocking it straight off the road, [Keith: Yeah.] as Tien Shinhan lands safely behind him.
Keith: You know, probably like a second— lands a— was supposed to land a second later but actually lands a second earlier and loses.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Another reason why I thought it would be a great idea to do Dragon Ball and do one of the tournament arcs was we had a conversation in one of the Media Club episodes where you talk about, like, what happens in other anime when, like, a protagonist loses.
Jack: Mm. [Sylvia laughs]
Keith: And we all had trouble thinking of examples where that happened a lot. Like, in Dragon Ball Z it doesn't happen very often. You know, they always pull through, because the stakes are so high you can't lose, you know? And I think I mentioned, in Pokémon, Ash is constantly losing, especially, like, [Sylvia: Yeah.] the big season finale fight. He loses every single one.
Jack: Yes, [laughs] every time.
Keith: Until the very last one, like, 20 seasons in.
Sylvia: Yeah, perennial loser Ash Ketchum.
Keith: Perennial loser Ash Ketchum. [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: Total scrub. Can't get it done. [Keith and Jack laugh] This is me on First Take being like, “Listen, this guy just doesn't have it. Doesn't have the killer instinct.” [Jack and Keith laugh]
Keith: But I was looking into the Dragon Ball stuff, and I was like, “Oh yeah, Goku loses all the time. Master Roshi basically orchestrates Goku losing all the time.” [laughs] 
Jack: Yeah. But this is a— this is a win, because we've got Tien Shinhan on board.
Keith: Right, yes.
Jack: And Goku’s not dead, [laughs quietly] you know?
Keith: Yeah, and Goku didn't care about winning even. 
Jack: No.
Keith: He just wanted to have fun fighting.
Sylvia: That’s true.
Jack: Yeah. What a little weirdo.
Sylvia: Constantly the case, honestly, with him.
Keith: Yeah. It’s great. So, the first thing that happens when the announcer declares Tien the winner, tries to talk to them both, but they’re both passed out. Krillin immediately starts running to make sure that Goku’s okay, and when Goku opens his eyes, you can see Krillin standing there, like, trying to help him up, and then, behind him, you see the whole crowd from the stadium has run to find them. Somehow they ran six miles. [laughs] 
Jack: It’s great. This ending is weirdly moving for these characters that I had not seen.
Keith: It’s really moving. It’s so good.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: In short, what happens is that the crowd welcomes Tien Shinhan as the winner and lifts him onto their shoulders as he looks stunned at this applause.
Keith: He’s totally stunned, yeah. I said, “Tien is stunned at the reaction.” Then I have a couple quotes from Roshi that are really good.
Sylvia: I was gonna ask if anyone had what Roshi said, because I love it.
Keith: I do. It’s so good. He says— and it feels like this is being said through, like, telepathy to Tien, but they don't do the telegraphing that they normally would do, so it’s sort of ambiguous—
Dre: Mm.
Sylvia: Mm.
Keith: Whether or not Tien is hearing any of this. I think if you made me say, I would say that this is an internal monologue that Roshi is having, but I don't know. He says, “That’s right, all of this noise is for you. You won! I know cheering is a relatively new response for you—you're used to hearing screams—but you'll get through it. Adulation has a funny way of growing on you. So how does it feel to win? You should be proud of yourself. I am. But be warned, this new turn may bring with it unexpected consequences! People may actually like you! Enjoy.” 
Sylvia: I love Master Roshi.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: Get his ass. Gotta roast him just a little bit in there.
Keith: And then Tien—
Sylvia: People might start liking ya, you loser. [Jack laughs quietly]
Keith: Tien calls him Master, [Dre laughs] which is really— which is also moving in its own way.
Sylvia: That’s his first name. [Jack and Keith laugh]
Keith: Yeah, that’s his first name.
Jack: And then we get just a beautiful shot, and I think it’s a mostly silent shot, or there’s no dialogue, as Goku is lifted onto the crowd’s shoulder.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And Tien and Goku look at each other from on top of this crowd. It’s just a really good image. Keith posted it in the chat earlier, I think because you were also like, “I love this image.”
Keith: Yeah, yeah.
Jack: Yeah, what a great image. I'm just updating it here.
Keith: And it’s sort of like— I mean, it’s— you can feel like, you know, whatever else has happened in this episode to get Tien where he is, like, this is the, like, moment of the melting of his heart, really, and you can feel it.
Sylvia: Yeah. It’s his Grinch moment. 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: His heart’s growing three sizes this day.
Keith: It’s his— [laughs quietly] it’s his Grinch. [Jack laughs] Goku looks so small next to Tien here. It’s very cute.
Jack: Yeah. It was great. I thought that this ending worked really well, [Keith: Yeah.] as we move into, to me, a bizarre outro.
Sylvia: Oh my god! [laughs] 
Jack: So, they all go and have dinner.
Keith: Yeah. [Dre laughs]
Jack: Well, so, first, they say, “Tien, do you kinda want to come with us?”
Keith: Yeah. He offers to give Goku half of his prize money. Goku refuses. Roshi gives another gem. He says, “Tien, it’s true luck helped you win today, but don't let that discount your achievement. In fact, luck and strength go hand in hand,” and then he’s like, “Okay, at least buy me dinner.” Krillin makes a hilarious joke, which is, “I guess you found out a way to take half his money after all.”
Jack: Whee.
Keith: Whee. [laughs] 
Sylvia: Pretty good! Pretty good, little mafioso. [Keith laughs]
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: We get Lunch— oh, is this the thing that— is the Lunch thing the thing that you were saying is bizarre?
Jack: Uh, no. The whole— the thing that happens is bizarre.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: It’s just a weird shift, it feels like.
Keith: Lunch is in love with Tien. That’s a surprise. Mean Lunch.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Mean Lunch is like, “You can come with me! I won't even cook—” she has bad cooking. “I won't even cook for you.”
Jack: She has bad cooking?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Okay.
Sylvia: In the subtitles, she’s like, “We can just be pen pals!” She’s, like, willing to go into an LDR with this three-eyed man. [Jack laughs]
Keith: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Like, good for her.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: She knows what she wants.
Keith: I can't get that bald head out of my normal head. [Sylvia laughs]
Jack: Achoo! Oh no, Master Roshi!
Sylvia: Shots fired on bald people. [Keith and Jack laugh]
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: And then they all go to dinner, and as Goku sits down for dinner, he goes… [laughs] Bear in mind, I haven't heard anything about this. He goes, “Wait! I forgot about my grandpa’s Dragon Ball and my Power Pole!” and I'm like, [Keith: Yeah.] yeah, yep. Goku, I also forgot about these things.
Keith: Goku [Dre: Mm-hmm.] carries around with him— his grandfather wore a Dragon Ball on his hat for his whole life. This is how Bulma finds Goku in the first episode, is because she has the Dragon Ball thing.
Jack: Oh, because she has the little detector.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: And he carries around his dead grandfather’s Dragon Ball as, like, a keepsake, so he always has it, and of course his Power Pole is the thing from the, um…
Sylvia: The interstitials.
Keith: The interstitials that he hits Roshi in the head with, that’s his extendo pole from Journey to the West.
Jack: Oh, so have they not found all the Dragon Balls by this point?
Sylvia: They've done it—
Keith: Oh, they've found them several times.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah. They find them all the time.
Jack: But doesn't— don't they all get scattered to the five winds when you make the wish?
Keith: Yeah, but whenever they—
Dre: Yeah, they just go find them again.
Keith: Whenever they turn back from being rocks into being Dragon Balls again after a year, he goes and finds his grandfather’s one and then goes like, “Okay.”
Sylvia: It’s cute, yeah.
Jack: Oh, that is cute.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Oh, he makes a priority to get that one every time. [laughs] 
Keith: Yep. It’s the four.
Sylvia: It’s the four star Dragon Ball.
Keith: Yeah, the four star ball.
Sylvia: Which—
Jack: They have different stars?
Sylvia: Yeah, they all have stars from one to seven, so you know which ones you've got.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Do they have individual powers?
Sylvia: No.
Keith: Uh, no.
Jack: Okay.
Sylvia: Uh, I'm trying to find a good— okay, cool. I found a good picture of it.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: A very cute thing in Dragon Ball Z is that Gohan, Goku’s son named after his grandpa, wears the same hat with the Dragon Ball on it.
Jack: Aww! 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: [cross] Cute. That’s not where I thought it would be.
Sylvia: [cross] Yeah, I thought you would like that.
Keith: He wears a little baby—
Jack: It’s like a little—
Keith: He wears a little baby-sized Grandpa Gohan outfit.
Sylvia: Yeah, it’s adorable.
Jack: That’s great. What is the character on this character’s chest?
Sylvia: Ah, I don't know.
Keith: I don't know ei— is it, uh—
Jack: Is it the same one that appears during the title sequence?
Sylvia: It’s possible? I don't know. I haven't looked closely enough. I'm not gonna say definitively, I don't think.
Jack: Yeah. Fair enough. Because then Krillin says, “All right, no. You eat. I'll go and get it for you,” and there's this very weird long moment here that I couldn't— I can sort of— I can put pieces together, right, where it’s like, Goku recognizes that asking Krillin to do this is really dangerous, but he lets him go and do it anyway. He, like, pauses. He says, “Oh, Krillin, wait!” and Krillin turns, and then Goku says, “Oh, no, it’s nothing. You know, have a good time getting it for me. I won't eat all your food!” or whatever, and I'm so curious about what’s going on here beyond just Goku recognizing that…in what way is this dangerous, and how does Goku know that? Is there something that isn't being said here?
Keith: Um…
Sylvia: Uh…
Keith: I think that it is a— I think that Goku— this is my read on it is that Goku can sense that there is a strong presence somewhere back in that direction, and he’s, like, second-guessing himself and is like, “It’s probably nothing,” and then is, like, feeling it throughout the dinner, and then that’s what, like, triggers him to get up and go.
Jack: Because he experiences ego death at the dinner table.
Keith: [laughs] He does, yeah.
Sylvia: He just disassociates a little bit, you know? 
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: It’s fine.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: A classic place to experience ego death.
Sylvia: Uh huh.
Jack: The dinner table. Uh, and they rush in, and they find Krillin, and he’s dead! A monster came and stole the Dragon Ball and the Power Pole? No, the Power Pole is there. The Dragon Ball is gone.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And Krillin is dead, with no windup, no warning, no foreshadowing.
Sylvia: It rules.
Jack: At the end of a tournament arc, Krillin has been killed.
Keith: Yeah. The little mafioso himself finally got whacked.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: No, but he didn't finally get—
Dre: And he’s got a little ketchup on his face.
Jack: [laughs quietly] He didn't get whacked, because I know what the next wish is.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: Right? In a world where you can just wish people back when we find the Dragon Balls, a thing that they've done, how do they make death consequential?
Sylvia: Well, there is a limit to the number of times you can be revived.
Jack: Ah.
Sylvia: I don't know if we've mentioned that.
Jack: No.
Keith: You can only be revived one time, until, at some point, they make a wish that that’s not true anymore.
Sylvia: Or they— no, they get different Dragon Balls.
Dre: No, no, no, they have to go get a different set of Dragon Balls.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: Oh, is it that they have to remake the Dragon Balls, because they get dest—
Dre: No.
Sylvia: That’s why they have to go to Namek.
Dre: Yeah, that’s— well, that’s not why they have to go to Namek, but…
Sylvia: Or part of why they go to Namek.
Keith: No, but after the Earth is destroyed, they have to remake the Earth, so they use the Namekian Dragon Balls to remake the Earth, including remaking the Dragon Balls and reviving the dragon, but they change the dragon to be more powerful.
Sylvia: I think so.
Jack: So, every planet has their own Dragon Balls and dragon? It’s sort of a fact of the universe?
Keith: No, just those two.
Jack: Okay. [Keith and Jack laugh]
Dre: No, not just those two. It’s planets that have Namekians on them.
Keith: Right, sure. Planets that have Namekians, yeah.
Jack: So, Namekians produce Dragon Balls.
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: God, I sounded like such an asshole. [mocking] “Well, Keith, it’s not just those two.”
Keith: Well, what other planets have Namekians? [Dre laughs]
Jack: Are Dragon Balls…hmm…sort of created magically, or are they forged by humans? Does labor go into making Dragon Balls, or is it just a fact of the universe?
Dre: I don't think so.
Sylvia: No, they're magical.
Keith: Well, but it’s so—
Jack: Okay.
Dre: They’re, like, tied to a Namekian god.
Jack: Hmm.
Dre: I think.
Keith: But how does the Earth get them, then?
Dre: Because of Kami.
Keith: But why— but Kami— what does Kami do to bring them to Earth?
Dre: Great question.
Keith: And also, the—
Dre: I don't remember.
Keith: Yeah, that’s the thing. I don't remember the actual mechanics of how they get made, but it was basically Kami is— so, Piccolo becomes a good guy and a bad guy, or, sorry, the Namek— the unnamed Namek who comes to Earth [someone chuckles] becomes the Guardian of Earth, Kami, and also the evil King Piccolo, and at some point, either Kami or the unnamed Namek bring the Dragon Balls, the concept of the Dragon Balls to Earth, based off of their vague memories of their home planet.
Jack: Hmm. But they bring them— in bringing the concept, they are sort of magically spawned.
Keith: I guess, yeah. I guess they are.
Jack: Is the dragon the boss of the Dragon Balls, or are the Dragon Balls the boss of the dragon?
Sylvia: Is a genie the boss of its lamp?
Keith: No, I think it’s— 
Dre: Yeah, that’s the exact…
Keith: I think the genie is the slave to its lamp.
Jack: No, the genie is subordinate to the lamp.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yes, the genie is its—
Sylvia: I think you have your answer, then.
Jack: Ohh.
Keith: Well, but the dragon— the dragon— I feel like the dragon willingly returns to wherever it goes when it’s not being summoned.
Jack: Oh, it’s not all around on Earth hanging out, and it won't talk to you if you don't have the Dragon Balls. It will only appear if you have the Dragon Balls.
Keith: Yes. Yeah. It shows up, and it’s sort of in a hurry to get back. That’s the— that’s why I'm sort of disagreeing is because the dragon’s always like, “Hurry up. Make your wish. Let me get back to wherever I'm supposed to be.”
Dre: He’s trying to chill.
Jack: No, he's putting the screws on you, right? He knows that you will make a fucked up wish if he rushes you, right?
Keith: Um, he seems pretty neutral, and I think a lot of times the threats to the Earth are also a threat to the Dragon Balls, which means a threat to the dragon, and so…
Jack: And in fact, when the Earth blows up, so does the dragon.
Sylvia: Mm.
Dre: Hmm.
Keith: Yeah, so I think the dragon likes you if you're nice to him, and also if you're defeating threats to Earth, it ends up working out for— the dragon’s name is Shenron.
Dre: Oh!
Jack: Hmm.
Dre: Do you— okay, I remember-slash-found the Dragon Ball lore.
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Great.
Jack: Yeah!
Dre: So, the original Dragon Balls were the Super Dragon Balls that were formed by the Dragon God Zalama. The Namekians found the Super Dragon Balls—
Keith: [cross] Right, this is a Super thing.
Dre: [cross] And they shaved pieces off to make their own.
Sylvia: Okay.
Keith: That’s a Super thing.
Dre: Yeah.
Sylvia: Means nothing to me. [Jack chuckles]
Dre: But the original Dragon Balls are the size of planets.
Jack: Whoa!
Keith: Yeah. So, this— in my heart, I like Dragon Ball Super, but I do consider it pretend canon. It is only pretending to be canon.
Dre: No, I agree.
Keith: And so—
Sylvia: Yeah, 'cause you're a GT fan, just like me!
Keith: [laughs] And so, without that, without the planet-sized Super Dragon Balls, you've only got the Namekian balls and the Earth balls. Does your lore say how the unnamed Namekian brings the Dragon Balls to Earth?
Dre: Um, no.
Keith: Damn.
Dre: Let me scroll back up. [laughs] 
Jack: Hmm.
Dre: Yeah, it just says they were created by Kami.
Keith: Okay, Kami did it. Okay.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: Yeah, the unnamed Namek—
Jack: Who is Kami?
Keith: Kami is the— so, the unnamed Namekian thought about the nature of good and evil so hard [Sylvia laughs quietly] that he split into his good half and his evil half.
Jack: Mm, mm-hmm.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Keith: Kami is the good half and becomes the Guardian of Earth. He lives in a tower that is sort of like— you know Korin’s Tower that we talked about earlier?
Jack: Mm-hmm?
Keith: Kami’s tower is a Korin’s Tower that lives above Korin’s Tower. [laughs]
Jack: Huh. Okay.
Dre: Mm. That’s also where the Hyperbolic Time Chamber is.
Keith: It’s also where the Hyperbolic Time Chamber is.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Wow. Wow! Once again.
Sylvia: I put this in the chat, but for a second, I thought you said you were calling someone an unnamed Namekian thot, [Keith, Jack, and Dre laugh] and I was like, wow.
Jack: Oh, god. Different show.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Maybe better show. 
Hunter × Hunter and Final Thoughts [2:33:43]
Jack: Yes, again, I can see exactly why you picked this, Keith, especially because I think that there is a real…Tien is probably not as consequential a character to the show as Killua is going to be to Hunter × Hunter.
Keith: Uh huh.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: But the turn that is made or the hand that is offered to Tien Shinhan in these episodes is such an interesting mirror to the way that Illumi and Gon and Hisoka are talking about Killua, right?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Of like, oh, you're just a killer. You're worth nothing more than that. You know, I have raised you to kill.
Keith: Right.
Jack: And then someone saying, “No, actually, you're better than this,” except in Dragon Ball, it is a lecherous martial arts boss. [Jack and Keith laugh]
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Instead of the—
Dre: Well, so is the bad one too, so.
Jack: Yeah.
Keith: Instead of a different lecherous martial arts boss.
Dre: Yeah.
Jack: Yes.
Dre: They— yeah, he just wants to touch boobs. He doesn't want to kill you.
Jack: Whereas Illumi— god, remember when Illumi was just like, “Oh, I know how I solve this. I just have to kill Gon.” [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Yeah. [Keith laughs]
Jack: Oh, that was great. Why did Illumi decide not to kill Gon in the end? Oh, because he would get disqualified?
Keith: It was always a bluff.
Jack: Oh, he was always bluffing?
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Yeah. Yeah, he wanted to break Killua.
Keith: Because he does eventually learn— he does eventually learn, like, oh, I would be disqualified, but if I waited until after, then I could kill everyone here.
Jack: Yes. [laughs quietly] Oh, yes, he does briefly suggest that he’s going to kill everybody. Oh, Illumi’s an absolute nightmare. How many Zoldyck— have I met all of the Zoldyck children? No.
Keith: No.
Jack: I can't have done. I've met the computer hacker.
Sylvia: You definitely haven't.
Jack: I've met Illumi, and I've met the little boy, right, who hangs around with the mother.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: What’s the mother’s name?
Sylvia: I don't— uh…
Keith: Ki…
Jack: I've got it written down somewhere.
Sylvia: Kalluto is the little brother, right?
Keith: Yeah. Um, it is…
Jack: Kikyo.
Keith: Kikyo, yeah.
Jack: And that’s it, and then Mr. Zoldyck. So.
Sylvia: Silva.
Keith: Silva, yeah.
Jack: Silva?
Keith: Silva.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: And then his dad’s Zeno.
Jack: Oh, right! I forgot about Zeno!
Keith: One kill per day.
Sylvia: Don't ever forget about Zeno.
Jack: A murder a day. What does he say? “A murder a day” or something?
Keith: One kill per day.
Jack: One kill per day! That guy’s terrifying. [Keith laughs] That is Silva’s dad, right? Yes.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Jack: Kikyo has married into the Zoldyck family, and seems to be broadly okay with it. [laughs] 
Keith: Do you— ooh. So, there's a character that we never meet in 2011 Hunter × Hunter that is Zoldyck related.
Jack: Oh, then we can—
Keith: Should I say who it is?
Jack: We can probably talk about that, right?
Sylvia: Is that the Tommy Pickles one?
Keith: Tommy Pickles, yeah.
Jack: What?
Keith: Tommy Pickles?
Sylvia: Remember when we saw the silhouettes of them and there was a Tommy Pickles looking guy?
Jack: Oh.
Keith: Do you know who Tommy Pickles is, also?
Jack: Yeah. He’s a Rugrat, right? [Dre laughs]
Sylvia: I vaguely do, yeah.
Keith: So, the very middle of this picture is a very short little Tommy Pickles. That— [Keith and Dre laugh]
Sylvia: You know, his head’s shaped more like Dil Pickles, I think, actually.
Keith: Sure, sure.
Dre: Oh.
Keith: That is Maha Zoldyck. That is Zeno’s grandfather!
Jack: Wow! Wow, but this is a frame from the show, so this is really interesting. They put him in this frame to be part of the Zoldyck family.
Keith: They put him in this frame.
Jack: And I've seen this shot already, so hang on, let’s see. We've got Illumi, Milluki…oh, this is probably Zeno.
Sylvia: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Silva.
Sylvia: Yep.
Jack: Zeno’s grandfather. [laughs quietly] And then, I don't know who that is. That’s Killua. I don't know who that is that Killua is holding hands with? Or it could be someone who looks very similar to Killua. And then it’s Kikyo, and then it’s Kalluto. Hmm. Okay. So, we have two, possibly three further nightmares. [Sylvia laughs] Interesting. Interesting.
Keith: Mm.
Jack: I'm excited to get back to Hunter × Hunter.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. It’s been a while.
Sylvia: Me too. We're about to get to some real good shit. I've been waiting for it.
Keith: Yeah, we took a long break because of scheduling and because of doing the Dragon Ball stuff, [Dre: Mm-hmm.] where, uh…it was a good place to take a break, but we are, like, inches away from some of the best stuff in the show. 
Sylvia: Some of my favorite stuff, at the very least.
Jack: Yeah. It’s worth saying, at least right now—and I can't promise this will alway be the case, but I guess maybe a fun bit of inside baseball—we have deliberately an extremely good schedule right now with Hunter × Hunter. We are way ahead of what is airing.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: And so that enabled us to do something like take this extended break to suddenly start making the show about Dragon Ball for a while.
Keith: Mm-hmm.
Jack: But yes, that does mean that we haven't watched Hunter × Hunter for a bit in our time, although for you, the viewer, there will have been no interruption at all.
Keith: Yeah. We still have a four episode buffer. Or five? Four or five? Did we just record 13 or 12 is our last one?
Sylvia: I don't remember.
Keith: Well, it’s either four or five episode buffer, yeah.
Jack: That’s brilliant. No better feeling.
Keith: No.
Jack: No greater love. [laughs quietly] 
Keith: No. And hey, next episode, we're getting back to it. 
Jack: Yeah. I'm excited.
Keith: And I have a feeling that we're going to [Dre: Mm.] want to blaze through that stuff.
Sylvia: Oh. Uh huh. [Keith laughs] Uh huh.
Jack: I'm excited. So, this is— here is what I think is going to happen.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I think that the function of this next arc is going to be: everybody goes to Yorknew City, and we are introduced to the Phantom Troupe across an arc. I think this is: welcome to the jungle; we've got 13 freaks.
Sylvia: [singing] Welcome to the jungle. We've got 13 freaks.
Dre: [singing] We've got 13 freaks.
Keith: How soon do you think we're gonna meet everybody?
Jack: Immed— uh, everybody? They're gonna be spread out over the course of this arc.
Keith: Okay.
Jack: We're gonna start meeting them like [snaps three times], you know?
Keith: Sure.
Jack: Give me the freaks! That’s what— “give me the freaks” is what they say.
Keith: [singing] Give me the freaks, boys, and free my soul.
Sylvia: Oh, very musical.
Keith: Thank you.
Jack: Wow. Okay, I think that’s about it for today.
Sylvia: Very quickly, would you like to see an image of who kills Krillin? [Keith laughs]
Jack: Yeah! Oh, yes, absolutely!
Sylvia: Would you like to see Krillin’s murderer?
Jack: How many episodes until Krillin’s back?
Sylvia: I don't know.
Keith: I don't know. He’s—
Sylvia: But there’s Krillin’s murderer.
Dre: A little bit. I mean, they gotta go get the Dragon Balls to wish him back.
Keith: Yeah, I genuinely don't know [Jack: Whoa!] how that happens.
Jack: Okay, Sylvi has sent me a…hmm. Let’s see. This is a Creature From the Black Lagoon with wings [Sylvia laughs] and relaxed post-gym attire.
Sylvia: Yeah, that’s the vibe. 
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Got a little sash around his waist.
Keith: So, you've seen Piccolo, Jack.
Jack: I have seen Piccolo, yes.
Keith: Would you like to see King Piccolo?
Jack: Are they—
Sylvia: Ooh, yeah, let’s do a little segment of just showing Jack things.
Jack: Yeah, I'm up for that.
Dre: Mm.
Jack: Are they different?
Keith: Yes. Piccolo is King— Piccolo is King Piccolo’s, uh, child-slash-regenerated-self?
Jack: Okay. All right. King Piccolo me up. Let’s see. Fiddle dee dee.
Keith: This is a cover of one of the—
Sylvia: [laughs quietly] Fiddle dee dee! King Piccolo to me! [Jack and Dre laugh]
Jack: That’s what I say when I summon King Piccolo. Oh, wow. He looks kind of sinister.
Keith: Yeah, he is sinister.
Sylvia: [sinisterly] Fiddle dee dee.
Jack: Is that his clothes, or do his arms look like that?
Keith: His arms look like that.
Sylvia: Those are his arms.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: Whoa. Are these Namekians?
Keith: Yes.
Jack: Okay.
Dre: Mm-hmm.
Jack: Sick. Wow. Now what do you want to show me?
Sylvia: Uh, I want to show you Majin Buu.
Jack: Okay.
Sylvia: Because I love Majin Buu.
Jack: Uh, Piccolo— 
Keith: Which Majin Buu?
Sylvia: The original. Uh, you know what?
Jack: King Piccolo is a…strong humanoid fellow with a green head, a huge sort of forehead and crown of his head, two little insectoid, uh, antennae popping out of his head, and he’s got elf ears. That’s why he says fiddle dee dee. And he’s got big muscly green arms with orange plated patches on. This is Majin Buu. Okay, hmm. Hmm. This is a…fat guy wearing a vest, a cape, and, like, harem pants?
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: With an M on his waistband. He’s wearing dainty little shoes. He is wearing gold gloves. On the top of his head, he has a little— he looks like he’s from Whoville. [Sylvia and Keith laugh] He’s got, like, a little thing poking up, like a little antenna. He’s also got—
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: Are those his ears, or side eyes? I can't tell.
Sylvia: Those are kind of ears.
Keith: Those are ears-slash-steam-vents?
Sylvia: Yeah. When he gets upset, he’ll make noises, and steam will come out of those. He loves candy.
Jack: Wait, are these all Majin Buu? I've been sent eight images.
Keith: These are all the same guy, yes.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: One of them—
Sylvia: Well, so…
Jack: Hmm.
Sylvia: There’s two— you see, when Innocent Buu and Evil Buu [Dre: Mm-hmm.] absorb each other very much, [Jack laughs] that guy in the top left comes out, I believe.
Jack: He’s quite frightening looking.
Sylvia: And then the rest of these are a result of him eating various Z Fighters.
Keith: Evil Buu is not the result—
Jack: Oh.
Keith: So, Evil Buu, Kid Buu, Super Buu, and Majin Buu are— oh, and then the one one that’s, like, gonna explode 'cause he’s too buff. Those are all without eating anybody.
Sylvia: Oh, okay.
Keith: Then, the one where he’s wearing—
Jack: That’s Piccolo in the bottom left?
Keith: Yeah.
Dre: Yep.
Keith: He’s eaten Piccolo.
Jack: Is that Krillin to the right?
Keith: No, that’s, um…
Dre: That’s Kid Buu.
Keith: No, all the way to the right, with the ghosts?
Jack: No, no, no. To the right of Piccolo.
Dre: No, no, no.
Keith: Oh, okay.
Dre: Yeah, that’s Kid Buu.
Keith: That is Kid Buu. Yeah, that’s Kid Buu. That’s, like, final boss Buu.
Sylvia: That’s, like, yeah, ultra Buu. That is literally the final boss of Dragon Ball Z.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: This guy’s a baddie?
Keith: Yes.
Sylvia: Yeah, this guy’s a baddie who becomes a buddy.
Dre: Except—
Sylvia: Because the—
Dre: Yeah, the buddy form is marshmallow form.
Sylvia: Yeah, big chubby Buu is the good guy who becomes—
Keith: Big chubby one. He was the first bad one but ends up being the last good one.
Sylvia: Mr. Satan’s husband.
Jack: Because his character design is great.
Keith: He ends up being Mr. Satan’s husband, yeah.
Jack: I see. Is Dragon Ball a show about husbands?
Sylvia: It can be.
Dre: Yeah.
Keith: In a lot of ways, it is, yeah.
Jack: Yeah. Hunter × Hunter is not a show about husbands.
Keith: In almost—
Sylvia: Sometimes.
Keith: In almost every case, in order to get rid of a character, you need to make sure that they have a husband.
Jack: Okay. I see. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: I see.
Sylvia: That’s just good storytelling.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: That’s just good writing.
Jack: That is just— yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, we have been Friends at the Table.
Sylvia: I think that— yeah. I think that’s everything to show.
Jack: As we've said before, these bonus episodes are not on a schedule. We are not promising a schedule, nor will we deliver one. This isn't one of these things where we have an internal schedule that we are working to.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: We are gonna try and make these things when they make sense, when they [Sylvia: Yeah.] are fun to do, when we've got good ideas. We have ideas of more to do, and we will do more, [Keith: Yeah.] but we can't promise that they're gonna be, you know, at this frequency or at that frequency.
Keith: Do we want to—
Sylvia: Importantly, also, when we have time to do them.
Jack: Yep, critically.
Sylvia: Because we do this show on top of Friends at the Table, which also has its own set of Patreon things that you are [Dre: Mm-hmm.] presumably listening to if you're hearing this.
Keith: Yeah.
Sylvia: So, enjoy, but under— like, don't bug us about when the next one will be. You'll just get a drop.
Keith: Do we want to give any ideas of what some of those things that will be coming at some point?
Jack: Yeah, why not?
Sylvia: I mean, uh, I'm doing a very extravagant pose. That’s kind of a hint.
Keith: Okay.
Jack: Mm-hmm.
Sylvia: Posing in general, a hint. We've talked [Jack: Yeah.] about something involving poses.
Jack: I'm assembling my friends from across the various planets.
Keith: Okay.
Sylvia: Yeah, there’s that.
Jack: Getting a cool outfit.
Sylvia: There’s a sort of big giant ghost man standing behind me who fights for me. There’s that.
Keith: I'm shooting a Kamehameha out of my fingers in the shape of a gun.
Jack: Whoa. [laughs quietly] Whoa.
Sylvia: Yeah, no, that’s true. Yeah.
Jack: Sick. We had some weirder ones too, but I can't remember what they are.
Sylvia: Um…I mean—
Jack: We’re probably gonna watch Naruto at some point.
Sylvia: I as gonna say dattebayo, yeah. Believe it. We will.
Keith: I'm turning into 100 of me.
Jack: Who is that?
Sylvia: Is that a—
Jack: Is that a thing that happens in Naruto?
Sylvia: That’s Naruto.
Keith: Yeah, it is, yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: It’s, like, the main [Jack: Wow.] thing that happens. [laughs quietly] 
Sylvia: Oh, Goku— this I should have mentioned earlier. Goku’s, like, afterimage thing that he does basically becomes Naruto’s, like, first signature move in that show.
Keith: Yeah. Except they're real.
Sylvia: Except they're real.
Keith: They're real.
Sylvia: That’s, like, the big thing that makes them his signature move, is that they have tangibility.
Keith: Yeah. He has the Shadow Clone Jutsu, and he can turn himself into a small army.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Jack: What does shadow step look like if you're not Killua? Or the viewer?
Keith: I think it looks like—
Sylvia: Uh…
Keith: I always took it to be literal.
Sylvia: Yeah.
Keith: It looks like him…
Jack: He just walks at a really weird cadence slowly and then suddenly attacks.
Keith: Yeah, or maybe it just looks like he’s going slow, but he’s actually going really fast? Like the frozen arms when Goku’s flapping his little wings.
Jack: Oh, yeah. It’s such a cool move.
Keith: Yeah.
Jack: I hope that he doesn't move away from it now that he’s learned Nen.
[pause] 
Keith: Mm.
Jack: Mm…mm…
Sylvia: I— we'll just [Dre: Mm.] have to watch to find out.
Keith: You'll have to watch to find out.
Jack: Well, thank you for joining us.
[“The Boy in Green” by Jack de Quidt begins playing]
Keith: Yeah. Bye, everybody.
Jack: Goodbye!
Sylvia: Kamehameha.
Jack: Kamehameha, my dudes.
Dre: [cross] Kamehamama.
Keith: [cross] And a Kamehameha to you.
[song plays out]