Bonus Episode: GenCon Liveshow Marielda
Transcriber- thedreadbiter (intro), Cole
Ali: Hello everybody, it’s Ali here. How was your weekend? I had a good weekend. If you weren’t aware, this past July 3rd and July 4th, Friends at the Table did a livestream marathon fundraiser for the National Network of Abortion Funds. I am beside myself to say that we were able to raise $163,620. A truly incomprehensible number. We sort of really honestly thought that like $75,000 was pretty ambitious and there was gonna be a pretty big chance that we wouldn’t do that Marielda finale, so to see that final number is just completely incomprehensible. Thank you so so so much to everybody who donated, thank you to everybody who shared the stream, thank you to everybody who hung out and made it such a good time. Yeah, I, yeah, okay, so I’m just going to go over the milestones that were unlocked during the stream, because we had some and then we added some and then we hit them all, so there’s going to be a lot of different sorts of Friends at the Table content coming. Just starting from the lowest tier to the top, let’s just go through of the things that are going to happen. 
First and foremost, A More Civilized Age, which is a Clone Wars podcast that me and Austin do with Rob Zacny and Natalie Watson, are going to be doing a Star Wars actual play oneshot, um. It’s gonna rule. 
Second was that the Random Article demo was released for everybody on Monday. What you’re about to listen to right now is going to be the Gen Con Marielda recording, which was also unlocked. Duvall and Lyke from Sangfielle are going to be returning to do a True False War game? True False War is a card game designed, pending design? I think it’s designed by Austin Walker using an in-universe card set. You know, the two of them really have a score to settle and it is about True False War. There was an asterisk on the tournament, and we are gonna find out who the real True False War champion is. 
In addition to that, Friends at the Tale is going to be doing a Wildermyth Let's Play. Wildermyth is like an action adventure, tactical procedurally generated mixed with player input game that like really feels like playing a tabletop game? So that’s gonna be fun to play as a group, and we’re really excited to show it off. 
We did return to Marielda, we did a live of Scene Thieves as our big marathon finale on Monday night. The VOD is still available on twitch.tv/youtube but that’s gonna ex… twitch.tv/youtube? What? Um. [laughs] No. If you go to twitch.tv/friendsatthetable you can find the videos there. Those are gonna expire at some point but we were able to back up both days in their entirety over onto youtube.com/Friendsatthetable, um, both days are there and both days are annotated with chapters, so if you just wanted to be like, i just wanna see them play Escape Simulator, I just wanna listen to this Marielda thing, you can absolutely do that. Um. So go do that! [laughs] 
More stuff that we’re gonna be doing. We’re going to be doing a classic Eurovision stream at some point. Every year-ish, question mark, for the past maybe three or four years we've enjoyed doing a livestream commentary during the Eurovision finales, and we thought that it might be fun to go back and find one from say the 80s or 90s and do a commentary on that. So that’s gonna be really fun, don’t know when that’s gonna be but it’ll be at some point. 
We’re also going to be seeing the Chime again and seeing their first mission together. The Chime was the player group from COUNTER/Weight, so that is Aria Joie, Mako, Cass and AuDy working together for  the first time, which is gonna be a huge blast. 
Moving on, we are going to be what we’ve called a Stationery Weirdos stream/podcast where Janine is gonna wrangle together the members of Friends at the Table who care about paper and pens and talk about it? Um, that should be really fun. I think even if you don’t care about paper and pens it will be a good time, so look forward to that. 
We’re also going to be returning to the Bluff City Zoo. Bluff City Zoo is a Fiasco game that we did from Live at the Table where, god, me and Keith played some hunks, some lions got married, Janine played a very put-upon zoo coordinator, I believe Jack and Sylvi were also in that game. Playing Fiasco is always a blast, and because we sort of didn’t get to play it because we did Marielda instead we were like let’s put a, uh, uh Fiasco goal on there, and we have, and we’ve done it, so, look forward to more of that soon. 
Um. Another thing that we’ve unlocked is the Pusher Media Club. Season 1 and Season 2 quote unquote were both unlocks that we both hit, um, all of those are now just unlocked on our Patreon page, so if you go to patreon.com/friendsatthetable, you can just find all of them there and click play if you’d like to. I believe that if you’re a patreon subscriber now with the RSS feed and you refresh it all of that stuff should just appear in your feed, I certainly hope that that’s how that works. I don’t know if we’re going to be putting those episodes into this feed. I kind of don’t want to clutter this RSS feed too much and also make it so PALISADE never released because we’re gonna be putting so many of these Pusher episodes onto this feed, so we’ll figure that out. But you can just go to patreon.com/friendsatthetable. All of those episodes are there and it’s a ton of them. Let’s just go over everything that we talked about on the Pusher Media Club so far. Um. Nice Guys, Sneakers, Streets of Fire, Tampopo, Fargo, Better Call Saul Season 2 episode 1, Crimson Peak, Spirited Away, There WIll Be Blood, and Dracula. I guess if you don’t know what Pusher Media Club is, at our Pusher tier, because it’s kind of an exclusive tier, we like to make it sort of a production journal. So the Pusher Media CLub has been an opportunity for us to do like a book club-esque sit down where we’ll talk about a piece of media and talk about how it’s inspired us for a specific season of this show. With these, the focus were either Bluff City or Sangfielle. And just how we reacted to it, how we liked the movie, just kind of a nice chill conversation between a collection of us. So. There’s a ton of those there and you can now go listen to them! And hopefully you enjoy them, because we are going to be recording one more for Romeo+Juliet. That was another milestone. I am so excited to do this. There was a question of like, well, which season was Romeo+Juliet inspired by and I think that like we as a collection of 8 people really live our lives inspired by Romeo+Juliet, so, it’s gonna be fun to talk about. Look forward to that. That is going to be coming up at some point. 
Another thing we’ll be doing in the future, we’ve added to Road to Season 8 gane and we’re going to be returning to the Brink. The Brink was the bar/truck stop/outpost from Twilight Mirage, um, that we kind of wanted to take a look at but were like there’s a lot of Season 8 games! But was sort of a worm in Austin’s head and to be able to do it because of this is going to be very cool, so look forward to that. We [laughs] we will also at some point be returning to Family Feud. We had a very fun game of Family Feud on the stream, but it was a shortish, I mean, it was the length of an episode of Family Feud, which is about 27 minutes, I’d say. Um, but we had a blast and we wanna return to it so we will be returning to it at some point. 
Another thing that we were going to be returning to is … Remember the first episode of Autumn in Hieron? Season of Hieron Autumn, when Hadrian killed a skeleton and then we find out that the skeleton, like, had a wife and he was just chilling and he, like, was a person who shouldn’t have been killed? Um, well, we’re going to be doing [laughs] um. We’re gonna be bringing Hadrian back to apologize to that skeleton while Jack is going to be sharing some Hieron music demos. That’s gonna be, it’s gonna be a lot of fun and I’m glad that the skeleton fans are finally gonna have their day in the sun. Y’know? Because this has been a long time coming. 
Um. In addition to that, uh, we are going to be recording an epilogue to the Second Spring, which will be an additional epilogue to Seasons of Hieron. [sighs] We’re gonna be playing Gather for that, a game that Austin had originally wanted to play for the finale, but was not in a place where it could be played for the finale, so this has sort of been an idea in the back of his head since we did that, to be honest. Um. So, to return to that setting, um, with a game that really fits it is something that we are looking forward to and did not think that we would be doing, but thank you so much for your support! 
And to cap it all off, our final milestone was Austin will reveal REALIS. You can check the stream for more of the details on that. REALIS is a tabletop game that has been worked on primarily by Jack and Austin for the past couple of months, but has had additional writing and help from Janine and a few other people. It’s been in playtests right now, so if you’ve been playtesting it and helping Austin with that, thank you so much. If you haven’t been, you will have an opportunity to look at the game and find out what that is at some point. Jack revealed music on the stream which you can go listen to. Why would Jack have music on the stream? What are we planning on doing with REALIS? Who knows! I do, but don’t worry about it. Um. But yeah, that's a blast, and that Austin was able to talk about it was something that he was really glad to do for doing something incredible like raising $160,000 for abortion access! 
So. God! [laughs] So yeah, thank you, thank you, thank you so much again so much to everybody who made this possible, everybody who donated, everybody who hung out, everybody who was super nice in chat, everybody who was using the Nightbot commands to remind people of donations and schedules and stuff, especially while I was lost in the Maelgwyn respect zone. Thank you to KB, who joined us for Family Feud and Hammacher Schlemmer. Thank you to Hammacher Schlemmer and the funny skeleton song. Thank you to Tyler Crumrine, who designed Scene Thieves, which fucking ruled. Thank you to Adam Bass who designed Standoff, which we did the first day, which fucking rules. The developers of Spacelands from the Far Out, the developers of Escape Simulator, um. We did a lot of stuff, we did a lot of stuff, so thank you to everybody who made it possible. Um. 
I just wanna say that you can find a full archive of both over on youtube.com/friendsatthetable. Those are there, they are going to stay, they are not gonna expire, they are divided by chapter so it should be easy to just sit down and watch it. There were some questions on whether that stuff is going to hit the feed, it’s really more of a when question and not if, but the more podcast adjacent stuff like obviously Marielda with Scene Thieves, our playthrough of Standoff, the “episode” quote unquote of Random Article that we did will all hit the feed at some point. But who knows when, because tomorrow, Thursday, we are gonna be continuing America’s Playground, which fucking rules and is hilarious. Speaking of the Patreon, we are going to be continuing our game of LANCER this week. It was going to be Tuesday but we streamed for 11.5 hours on Monday so I thought it would be a little much. Um. I didn’t think that we or our audience, to be fair, had it in them to sit down for another 2-4 hour livestream after the weekend. I’m being hit with psychic power of people out there saying “Yes, I would like to do that!” but that’s gonna be Friday instead, so tune into that. 
Um. And yeah! I think that’s everything that I have to go over! Just to say what it is you’re about to listen to, back in 2019 we did a liveshow at GenCon that was set in Marielda, playing blades in the dark, and it was funny and it was good, and it was previously a Patreon exclusive as a way to be like, thanks for supporting us, here’s this thing that you wouldn’t have had access to otherwise if you weren’t there. But now everybody has access to it, and enjoy! Yeah, enjoy! And thank you again. Like for real, like. I still cannot believe the thing that we did, um, but we did it, and we did it collectively, and it’s gonna help a lot of people, it’s gonna help a lot-a lot of people and a lot of organizations that really need it right now. The fight for abortion access in the states right now is going to be a very long road, um, so to look at this incredible amount of money and think about how much it will support people is, is is is is… I don’t have the words for it, I am going to be honest. But. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you, thank you! And enjoy Marielda! Bye!
Audience Member: Austin, uh, Luigi just beat Sonic Fox in winner’s trial. We’re gonna see if we can [inaudible]. 
Austin: Yeah, we’ll just hang. [laughter] [Austin starts an audience chant] Sonic Fox! Sonic Fox! Sonic Fox! Sonic Fox! Sonic Fox! 
[Speaker Unclear]: You're gonna give him your energy!
[Everyone shouts]
Austin: Alright. 
Audience Member: Trans rights!
Austin: Trans rights. Absolutely. [crowd woos a little; then laughs] 
Austin: Is it plugged in?
Art: I think Austin pointed at you. 
Ali: [from far away] It’s plugged in. No, I know. [laughs]
Austin: There was a cue originally here. 
Dre: Was it you pointing?
Austin: It was. 
Dre: Okay. [laughs] 
[Speaker Unclear]: Is your volume down?
Ali: No. 
Audience Member: Is this a clapcast? [audience laughs]
Austin: We atually recorded one of those already. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Audience Member: Do we all have to clap?
[Jack de Quidt’s “Marielda” begins playing]
Austin: Well, it is like I said, there is a lot more to know about The Six. What they got up to that year in Marielda. Audacious schemes pursued in the bright sunlight of Samothes himself. Daring escapes across rooftops and under the moons. One time they rescued a talking dog. 
[music break, laughter] 
That year The Six made a name for themselves, but they did not always work alone. One fateful night, they teamed up with a rowdy bunch from across town. Maybe you’ve heard of them. The Black Slacks. [audience cheers and claps]
[music plays out to finish]
Welcome to Friends at the Table, an actual play podcast focused on critical world building, smart characterization, and fun interaction between good friends. I'm your host Austin Walker. And today, we are continuing our game of Blades in the Dark by John Harper. [audience cheers] 
Dre: We are. 
Austin: Yeah, we are. And we are joined by Sylvia[1] Clare. [audience cheers] [half-beat pause because Dre was closest to Austin, not Sylvia]
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: It’s alphabetical!
Sylvia: Hey, I’m Sylvia. You can find me on Twitter @captaintrash, and I have an emoji podcast called Emojidrome. [audience cheers] That’s weird. [audience laughs] 
Austin: Andrew Lee Swan. 
Dre: Hey, you can find me two hours south of here in Louisville, Kentucky. [audience laughs] If you want to come hang Sunday, I guess. [Dre and the audience laugh] 
Austin: That’s forward. Art Martinez-Tebbel. 
Art: Hey, you can find me on Twitter @atebbel, and I hear that on a quiet winter's night, if you listen very closely, you can hear One Song Only. [audience cheers] 
Austin: And Keith J. Carberry 
Keith: My name's Keith J. Carberry. You can find me on Twitter @keithjcarberry. You can find the Let’s Plays that I do at youtube.com/runbutton. [audience cheers]
Austin: First and foremost, thank you all for showing up here today. This is super exciting. This is something that we've wanted to do for a long time, and the only reason we're able to do it is because y'all are here. For those of you who've heard our Blades in the Dark show, Marielda, you probably know what to expect here to some degree. Just to set the stage a little bit, this game is gonna take place between the Valentine Affair and Four Conversations. Which was a blank space we left in the world of Marielda specifically so we could do shows like this. 
For those of you who maybe love Friends at the Table or have a friend who dragged you here, but you've no idea what Marielda is or what Blades in the Dark is- People are waving, so I'm glad I wrote this. [audience laughs] Thank you. Welcome. I hope you enjoy what we're gonna do. Let me tell you a little bit about Marielda, and also that should be useful for those of us who haven't been in Marielda, so to speak, in a few years. 
So, Blades in the Dark is a game about lowlifes and smugglers and thieves and scoundrels who risk their necks in an industrial fantasy world. Think about like, Dishonored or China Miéville’s Bas-Lag books. It has lots of cool mechanics, and I'm gonna forget most of them today. [audience laughs] And that's okay. It’s an actual play, and in the interest of time, cause we don't have infinite time, please accept that we are just gonna mess up some rules. And we're gonna roll with it. Marielda is the setting that we play in Blades in the Dark. It is a location outside of our larger Hieron setting, which is a fantasy series we do, and which is coming to an end in just a few weeks. Believe it or not. [audience lightly boos] Don’t boo until it’s over. [audience laughs] Then you have reason to boo
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Marielda is a city operated and ruled by the ingenious god, Samothes. Who, in order to protect his holdings, and I guess his citizens, [audience laughs] from his rival and his husband, the god, Samot- [an audience member shouts ‘ow!’] who created an island. He created an island on which Marielda sits. He pulled the ground away from the continent and filled in the estuary that formed with a sort of magical lava in a big thunderous miracle. Because of Samothes’s brilliance, Marielda is a city of great technical wonder. Trains run above rooftops, and their tracks reconfigure in shape and direction as the need arises. Special obsidian is retrieved from the rivers of magma and used in the creation of rare and powerful items. Stone automatons, called the Pala-din, patrol the city to enforce Samothes’s will. 
If that last part sounds particularly authoritarian, well, that is true. [audience laughs] That is the other half of the deal. Samothes is not only a jealous god, not only a god who demands loyalty, but one who demands ignorance. Through his personal strength and the many institutions loyal to him, he has a stranglehold on knowledge itself in the city of Marielda. And that is where the heroes of the story have come in, The Six. They are thieves and dealers who hock something very rare, knowledge. At the point that we're entering this game, they've established themselves as a force to be reckoned with. Today's mission will focus on two members of The Six. I will let themselves- uh, let them introduce themselves. First up, we have Sige Coleburn 
Dre: Uh, yeah. Sige Coleburn is The Cutter, which is a dangerous and intimidating fighter. 
Austin: Okay, give me more. [audience and Sylvia laugh] Give me like, a little color. 
Dre: You mean like-
Austin: What’s he- what’s his deal?
Dre: Uh, he’s huge. 
Austin: One, huge. 
Dre: He likes to punch things. 
Austin: Two, likes to punch things. 
Dre: He's- he's got good hair. [audience woo’s]
Austin: He does have good hair. That's all I need honest. 
Dre: Okay, yeah. [laughs]
Austin: Save the rest. Next up, also from The Six, we have Aubrey Zosim. 
Sylvia: Yeah. Aubrey is The Leech. She is an alchemist. She's a little cobbin, which is sort of like a dog-lizard person, for anyone not aware. And she is- she's kind of a pacifist. [pauses] Well… She doesn't kill people. [audience laughs] 
Austin: Yeah. Not yet ready to do violence. 
Sylvia: You know. 
Dre: I do that. 
Sylvia: Yeah, that's what he’s for. 
Austin: That's why they're a great team. [audience laughs] Also, real quick, if you haven't seen, we are going to be selling incredible posters designed by Annie [Austin inaudible as audience cheers] after the show. We're gonna be breaking a little bit- more than a little bit earlier- We’re gonna be breaking pretty early so that we can make sure that people can get a chance to check those out and say hey and all that stuff. So, we’re running for a couple of hours, so we move at a quick pace, that is why. Why are people whispering? 
Art: We're telling you secrets back here. 
Keith: Mike- Mike Craft.
Austin: Mike Craft.
Sylvia: Uh, you're being too loud. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Oh, okay. Okay. Um, so, Sige and Aubrey will be working with two new characters for the show. A group called- from the- from the group called the Black Slacks. Who, if you don't know them, are a militant gang that fights for an under-served and over-prosecuted refugee population who is caught between the forces of Samothes and Samot, the rival gods, during that civil war. Here they found a home, and they work to keep their people safe and to slowly push society towards change. I will let Art and Keith introduce their own characters. Art, you're closer to me. You go first. Who are you playing as?
Art: Oh, now it's proximity. Before it was-
Keith: [interjecting] It's also- it’s still alphabetical. 
Austin: Still alphabetical. 
Art: Okay.
Keith: It's four A's and a K. 
Art: We could've been going by character name. 
Keith: Okay. 
Art: I'm still first. [Keith and audience laugh] My character is Beau Bevel. The play book is The Hound, a deadly sharpshooter and tracker. And Beau has a companion: Herringbone, a ghost dog. [audience cheers] Yeah, I'm looking out for y’all. 
Dre: Gotta have a dog. 
Austin: [starts a chant with the audience] Dog! Dog! Dog! Dog! Dog! Dogs! Dogs! Dogs! Dogs! Great. [Dre and Keith laugh] Keith, who are you playing as today? 
Keith: I am playing Cupboard Salt. [audience laughs] He goes by Cup.
Austin: Not by Salt? 
Keith: What’s that? 
Austin: Not by Salt?
Keith: Not by Salt. And we did talk about it downstairs. This is a first name character who goes by his first name. 
Austin: This is a thing we talked about. This is who we are. [audience laughs] Tell me about- about Cupboard Salt.
Keith: Cupboard Salt comes from Iris Parish, working in the factories there. Is slim, wears oversized clothes with too-long sleeves, a bright yellow shirt with purple stitching, and is kind of a slippery little shit. 
Art: Does anyone notice that Keith had way more character description than anyone else? 
Austin: Welcome to Friends at the Table. [audience and Dre laugh] So, in the interest of time, we are gonna pick up this game a little bit further than we normally would. It normally would be like, a huge downtime segment, and we would all just banter a bunch. And that would be rad, but like, I do want people to roll some dice today. So, we're gonna pick up just before the moment of engagement. Which if you haven't seen or played or heard Blades in the Dark before, is the moment where a crew’s plan goes into action. Blades in the Dark is great because you don't really need to sit down and make a big elaborate heist plan. You kind of figure out a mode of attack and then go from there. And because of a system of things like flashbacks, you can kind of fill in the blanks later. 
Here's where I’m gonna give you a little bit of setup. You were- Uh ,The Six were contacted by one County Sans-Soleil, a member of the Black Slacks we saw briefly once before, who has told you about an opportunity that crossed the desk of the Black Slacks. That is an opportunity that occurs in the overlapped space between the two of you. So, it's like, north Helianthus Parish, for people who remember that. Um, and because it's kind of contested territory, they wanted to make sure that, you know, there wasn't a fight over it. So, it was kind of like, ‘Hey, let's come together and try to do this thing together.’ 
The opportunity is a special auction of rare items that include something truly unique. A collection of pages written by Samothes, himself. The first words, it is said, ever put it to page. You have negotiated an agreement. Both gangs are going to secure the item and split the earnings. But both will send only two members to complete the score. Partially, that's to keep each other honest, but partially, that's because the- where- the place of the auction is being held has a special hex on it that will increasingly risk incinerating anyone who crosses it beyond a certain number of bodies. And those main bodies are already there. So, every new person who comes in, there's a chance you just get incinerated. [audience laughs] 
Keith: Woah.
Austin: So, I hope someone has backup character sheets. 
Dre: [to Sylvia] Hey. We can't be incinerated. [audience laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah.
Austin: But the point is no more than four extra people can come in. At that point, it gets too risky. So, sadly no Castille today. Sadly neither Hitchcock. That would be way too many people. But, you know, there's always the chance that- We'll see how things go. 
Art: Also, there are four great Black Slacks characters that couldn't make it. [everyone laughs]
Austin: Pour one out. Actually, one of them tried. [foley] Zyeesh. Incinerated. [everyone laughs]
Art: Sorry Lefty. [everyone laughs]
Austin: Here is what we know about the people at the auction. And this is some of the limited information you have at this point. It's a bunch of high ranking people from institutions in Marielda that have a lot of power already. This is not an auction between like, underground crime lords. This is an auction where people like, the Blessed Council and the True Church of Samothes have sent representatives. Both of them want this thing- this- this book, basically, because it will give them a relic of their lord that the other doesn't have. And that is something they can brag about and use to kind of garner more affection, attention, and resourcing. The Fontmen, who you may remember you went to war with once, they- they want it partially as a- They kind of think of it- You know how kilograms- You know how the kilogram used to work? There was the kilogram. 
Dre: Uh huh. 
Austin: Alright. So, there used to be a thing where like, ‘This is the kilogram. All other weight in the world is related to this thing.’ They want this book as that. Cause if this is the first language ever written, then this is the holiest language ever written. And so, they can figure out what's heretical based on its comparison to that. 
Sylvia: Really heavy burden [audience laughs]
Austin: Very heavy. Very heavy. The Golden Lance have a pretty utilitarian goal, and they're around for this also in the auction. They think like, ‘What if there's a cool gun design in there?’ [everyone and Sylvia laugh] And from what the early informants tell you, the Office of Lost Materials wants it back. This was lost already, and it was lost for a reason, they say. It belongs back in the mess that is their archives. With a high society grouping like that, again, you might think that's up in Chrysanthemum Parish, but it isn't. Instead this auction is being held in the reception hall at North Helianthus Clay-hound Track. 
Clay-hound track- Clay-hound racing is sort of what it sounds like. It's a popular sport where attendees bet on the outcome of a race between clay-hounds which are clockwork dogs made of ceramic and porcelain parts. This auction is being held after hours where- when the dogs are stored in a large underground facility that runs the same length of this oval track. That's what you know at base. As is the way of Blades in the Dark, at this point, before you do your engagement roll, you can roll to gather some more information. Who has ideas for how to do that? 
Dre: Um, I want to try and find out if I can get some dirt on one of these clay-dog runners- 
Austin: Sure. 
Dre: -so we can get them to drop out, and then maybe that's how we sneak in. 
Austin: Like, you go there ahead of time. 
[0:15:00]
Dre: No, we go there as like, people who have clay-dogs that are running in the race. 
Austin: Gotcha. Got you. So, I will say there is no race this night. 
Dre: Oh. 
Austin: Like, the races are that day. But going in ahead of time is not a bad idea. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: Setting that up as a potential thing. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: Go ahead and- How are you doing that? 
Dre: Uh-
Austin: Just talking around? What's your deal? 
Dre: I think- Okay. So, what Sige normally does is then talk around and then like, get really big-
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: -until people talk back. 
Austin: Okay. Intimidation. 
Dre: Yeah. [everyone laughs]
Austin: Give me a Command. Command obedience with your force of personality. Intimidate or threaten them. What is the uh- What are you- How many dice do you have in this? 
Dre: Uh, two. 
Austin: So, roll those 2d6. [dice shaking] You're looking for the highest. You’re looking for a six. Ideally a six.
Dre: This is so fuckin’ weird. We never roll dice. [audience laughs; dice shake] Oh, five. 
Austin: That’s a five! So, that's a standard success. You get good details. Clarifying follow up questions are possible. You're able to... So, what I want- What I'm gonna give you here is a list of what the- who the dogs are that are available here. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: And they're each- [Dre prepares his papers/pen] They are each connected to a different local business, basically. 
Dre: [ready] Go. [audience laughs] 
Austin: One, ‘An Appropriate Apple.’ [audience laughs] 
Dre: We are doing nothing to this dog. The name is too good. 
Austin: Okay. Two, ‘Broad Boat, For Me?’ [audience laughs] 
Dre: That's Sige’s dog. 
Austin: That’s Sige’s dog. Yeah. Uh huh. Yeah, it is.
Art: Wait. So, without the comma it's ‘For Me Broad Boat? 
Austin: Yeah, uh huh. [audience and Keith laugh] Uh, number three, ‘Congressional Appointment.’ Number four, ‘Dancer Equired.’ But acquired with an E. That's just the name of an album I like a lot. [audience laughs] 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: And dog number five, ‘Each Time I Laugh.’ [audience ‘awws’]  These- What you- what you learn is that each of these has both a- Oh, you got a success, right? 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Alright. So, each of these has a local completely average local business owner, basically. It's like- It's a way that kind of up-and- you know, upwardly mobile business owners in Helianthus or Orchid Parish-
Dre: Mhm. 
Austin:- invest some money by investing in people who then build these robot dogs, basically.
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: And most of them are totally clean. One of them, which is Broad Boat, For Me is owned by someone you know. Maybe actually you don't know, but the Hitchcock's know. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: And that is Snitch Nightly. [audience reacts negatively] So, that's something you know. That is uh- So, that is the- What I will say like, with this gather information roll, that is what you get. That alone will not let you do the thing where you go in early as then. 
Dre: Sure.
Austin: But that would be your engagement roll. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: So, I will keep this in mind as extra information you have. Any other gather information rolls here? 
Sylvia: I don't know if it counts, but can I make a fake dog? [audience laughs]
Austin: Save that for the engagement roll. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: Because that is- This is a good plan. 
Sylvia: Yeah. [audience laughs]
Austin: I like this. 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: I like this. 
Sylvia: Okay. [audience laughs]
Dre: It's not a good plan. But that is why it's good. [Dre and audience laugh]
Austin: Yeah. Yeah. 
Sylvia: Should I study how to make dogs then? [laughter]
Austin: No. Cause that's like- That's more of like- This is a- this is a long term action. It's a long term project. 
Sylvia: [amused] Yeah, okay. Good point. Good point.
Austin: I’m just gonna hand wave and say you figured that out to some degree. Go ahead. 
Keith: Uh, as the Black Slacks, we have access to underground map-slash-passkeys. 
Austin: Oh. 
Keith: Would it be an engagement roll or um-
Austin: Gather info. 
Keith: -gather info to-
Dre: Totally. 
Keith: -to research these? 
Austin: Give me Gather- Yeah, give me a Gather Info with Study. 
Keith: With Study? 
Austin: Yeah. Or you tell me what else- what else you might want to use there.  
Keith: I might want to use uh... Survey.
Austin: So, to do that, you have to use the map to like, go there early, which is possible. And I think maybe is in line with what your character is, right? So, are you just like sneaking in there- 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: -a couple days early to get the lay of the land? 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Give me a- Give me a Survey. 
Keith: Even- even then I could use Prowl, if that's what I'm doing. 
Austin: Yeah, totally. 
Keith: Alright. 
Austin: Give me a Prowl. 
Keith: Alright. [shakes dice; dice hit the table] A three and [amused] a three. [audience laughs]
Austin: Okay. We still get something sort of useful because it's not a- Like, Gather Information rolls don't have pure failures. Instead you're gonna get limited or- You know what, actually? Here's the thing. You have those- Are they fine maps? Or are they just maps? 
Keith: It just says underground map-slash-passkeys.
Austin: So, they're- 
Art: They're underground. 
Keith: They’re underground, which makes them cooler. 
Austin: I’m gonna move this from limited to- They're- [stammers] They’re hipster maps. Got it. [audience laughs] 
[crosstalking]
Art: I don’t think you’ve heard of these maps. 
Keith: Artisanal cartography!
Austin: I’m gonna actually raise it from limited to standard because you already have the maps. You didn't just say-
Keith: Right. 
Austin: -’I'm going to prowl and do this.’ With those map, what you learn is that there is underneath the track, which is on the surface level, a second track that's below. And that- I mean publicly, that's just where the dogs are kept sort of. 
Keith: [skeptical] Yeah right. 
Austin: But actually there's just straight up a second track there. 
Keith: I bet something even weirder races down there. [audience laughs]
Austin: May- maybe. Keep sayin’ shit, and I'll keep on takin’ notes. [audience laughs] It's uh, pirates- It’s uh, undead pirates.
Keith: It's ghost pirate track. Yeah. Ghost pirate racing track. 
Austin: Ghosts [inaudible] It’s wild.
Keith: Yeah. 
Art: In both. 
Keith: Yeah. And if you race on that track, everywhere you go, you also are racing. [audience laughs]
Austin: Life's a real ghost race sometimes. [audience laughs] There is something else here that you do get though, which is that the- There is only one way in there. You learn while goin’ around that there used to be two entrance points. Kind of the front entrance and a back entrance to this downstairs basement level track. And the basement level was “accidentally” destroyed with like, mining charges last week. Weird. I don't know why those are there at all. Definitely not for security reasons. And the other door, the front door is now this like, extremely like, high-quality vault door that has been recently installed. Weird. 
Keith: You know, the bigger a vault door is, the less people think about it. [audience laughs]
Austin: Yeah. Any other gather information here? 
Art: Uh, yeah. I'd like to- I'd like to just stake out the building. I'd like to spend a day looking at people coming and going and stuff like that. And I would like to use a Survey for it.
Austin: Absolutely. [dice hit the table] Those are big dice. [audience laughs] Five. 
Art: It's a stage show. You have to roll for the back row. [audience laughs and cheers as Art holds up the large dice]
Austin: Okay, you gotta roll for the back row. Okay. Uh, standard. So, what you get is some information about who is coming and going. And I think based on what you've already seen and what you see now, you can be pretty sure that the person who was holding this auction is one Snitch Nightly. [audience reacts negatively] What you also know is that he has hired Claret Holiday’s Red Rank Irregulars as guards. They are kind of like, toughs who do mercenary work. 
And also, one member of the Hospitaliers. Uh, the Hospitalier are a group that we barely saw in Marielda, but they used to be the Hospitaliers du Tristero. They were a group that like, did medical help for people. And then the shit with Tristero happened, and they were weirdly unguided and very confused and angry and also became kind of a weird mercenary unit. They have some stuff going on that we haven't seen. And so, what you see among the Red Rank Irregulars is like, one big fuck-off dude with a cool like... not waxed mustache- yeah, waxed mustache- who you recognize immediately because you kind of run in the same circle- circles. This is High Chevalier Robert-Renee DeFleur. 
Keith: Waxed mustache or wax mustache? 
Austin: Waxed. Waxed. [wax-DUH] 
Keith: DUH.
Austin: DUH. 
Keith: DUH.
Austin: Waxed [wa-x-DUH] mustache. And he has like... So he’s like, a big dude. He's like 6’8, I would say. With tanned skin with tattoos on his arms. Blue and silver kind of like, leather armor. And has a flintlock on his waist, a giant halberd, and then also a dagger. So, he is like a one man wrecking crew. 
Dre: This dude's biting my whole shit.
Austin: He’s bitin’ your whole shit! [everyone laughs] There’s other people out there. You know what I'm sayin’?
Dre: Also, he's not that big. 
Austin: He's not that big. Not as big as you. No, do you have a move that's like, ‘I'm bigger’? [audience laughs]
Dre: No, it’s just my existence. [audience laughs]
Austin: Okay. Trust the fiction. Follow the fiction. Alright. I think that that- Oh! There is one more thing you know, which is at the midnight equivalent- I don't know how clocks work in Hieron- at midnight, there is an overhead train scheduled to go ahead- go overhead, and that is one way you could get this thing and get out. You have called on Zaktrak and Peg, who are two of your cohorts, [audience cheers] to run a giant rope ladder from above- or from below this train. Then if you're on the roof at the right time, you can get up on that rope ladder and escape. 
Dre: Mm. 
Austin: So, that is a thing to keep in mind. 
Dre: We could also use that to like, get in. 
Austin: You might be incinerated. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: Uh, but you could- you totally could use that to try to get in, but later, right? That's the-
Dre: Right. 
Austin: That's the question. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: That’s the thing is like, it runs at midnight. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: So, is the book even still there at midnight? 
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Who could say? I think that that's it. Do y’all have a plan for engagement? I can read you this-
Art: I’ll hear this fake dog plan. 
Sylvia: Yea, so- [clears their throat]
Austin: What is-
Art: I don't know how it gets us in. 
Sylvia: Well, like, if we have a dog, we can be like, ‘Hey, we're here to drop our dog off at the track.’ [audience laughs]
Art: I don't think anyone's like, [difficult to hear; overlapped] ‘Yeah, I need to show the dog the race.’
Dre: What if you make the dog big enough that we can all fit in the dog? [audience laughs]
Sylvia: I could try. 
Art: Oh, the old Hieron legend of the Marieldan dog? 
Dre: Yeah. [audience laughs]
Austin: Yeah.
Sylvia: Yeah, I just figured I'd give us like, cover to get it into the like, facility basically. Should I try that out? Does that sound good to you guys?
Austin: Listen. Maybe. 
Sylvia: I'm- I'm asking my party members! 
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: Are you saying that this is a deception engagement? The options, again-
Keith: Well, we-
Austin: -Assault, Deception, Stealth Occult, Social, or Transport. This sounds like Deception to me. 
Sylvia: Yeah, probably Deception. 
Dre: I mean it's that, or we use Snitch Nightly to get in.
Keith: Art!
Dre: Which sounds gross. 
Sylvia: We could also do the underground like... You guys have the underground maps. We could also use that for something. 
Keith: Yeah. Beau and I came here to- to The Six with the plan. With the- or with the info, right? 
Austin: Right.
Keith: So, I guess- I guess I want to know what- how we thought we were gonna get in before one of these two says, ‘How about we build a fake dog?’ [audience laughs] 
Art: I think if we had a really good plan, we would have done it ourselves. [audience laughs]
Keith: I guess that's true. 
Austin: What would have you done? Was that- You would have built a fake dog, too?
Keith: I- Well- 
Art: [amused] Just a worse fake dog. [audience laughs] 
Sylvia: Definitely worse. 
Art: Here's our stuffed dog. Can we race? [audience laughs] I have a real dog. Is that the same? [audience laughs] 
Austin: Not allowed. She would have an advantage. Real dogs have too much heart. [audience ‘aww’s] Yeah, true. 
Keith: Can your ghost dog pass as a mechanical dog? 
Art: No. [audience laughs]
Dre: Oh shit!
Keith: No? Okay. No. Sorry. It's no. 
Sylvia: Can your ghost dog possess the dog that I make? [audience cheers]
Austin: Your ghost dog can- [audience still clapping] Alright. Now we got a fuckin’ plan. [audience laughs] Art, don’t you have a move for this? 
Art: I don’t have a- No! [audience laughs]
Keith: For- You don't have a possessed mechanical dog? 
Art: Yeah. The dog has a ghost form. It doesn't like, say what that means or that it includes possession. 
Keith: I guess that means it means whatever you need it to mean. 
Dre: Well, here's what we do. Here's what we do. 
Austin: Something’s wrong about this. I'm checkin’ the book. [audience laughs]
Dre: Alright, while you check, let me-  Okay. So, we have the dog. 
Austin: Yeah, he’s right. [audience laughs]
Dre: We have the- we have your ghost dog possess the clockwork dog, and we drop it off the day before. But then, the ghost dog comes out of the clockwork dog and like, does whatever mechanisms to get us into the building.
Art: I mean that a hundred percent work. Herringbone is a fantastic dog. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: And it's like- What type of dog is it?
Dre: A ghost. 
Austin: He’s a ghost.
Art: It's a ghost dog. 
Austin: Like, a bulldog? Do you know what I mean? Like a, [mean dog foley] ‘Rrr, Rrr, Rrr.’ 
Art: I mean uh-
Keith: It’s a weimaraner. Yeah, weimaraner. 
Art: Yeah, it’s one of those. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Art: It’s a ‘Rrr, Rrr, Rrr’ dog.  [audience laughs]
Dre: Alright, check dog foley off the list. [Austin and audience laugh hard]
Austin: Alright. This is moving from Deception to Occult very quickly. [audience laughs] 
Sylvia: Welcome to Friends at the Table. [audience laughs]
Art: There's not- [audience continues laughing and cheering]
Austin: Yeah. 
Art: Where's the one for like, weird Abbott and Costello plan? 
Austin: The comedy assault plan, yeah. 
Dre: That's just the whole book, Art. [laughs] 
Austin: Yep. Yeah.
Art: I just- I want there to be like, a guard who sees the ghost dog come out of the mechanical dog and goes, [comedic gasping] [audience laughs] and goes and tries to tell his partner. And he's like, [mimicking gasping] [Keith laughs] And he can’t say it. And then like-
Austin: This is a great. We never get to do visual gags. [audience laughs] It’s really- For people listening, Art made some movements. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Don't worry about it. 
Art: Go watch Abbott and Costello meet Frankenstein. It's not that good, but I was doing that. [audience laughs] 
Keith: They do the same thing in Scooby Doo. Scooby Doo is a lower barrier to entry. 
Art: Ah. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Um, we have to get off the boat. Pick a plan, please. 
Art: It's- it's ghost dog possesses mechanical dog. 
Keith: Yeah, it’s- and it's always been that.
Sylvia: The classic maneuver. [audience laughs]
Austin: Classic. Yeah. Alright, so Occult. Engage a supernatural power, detail the arcane method- Got the detail, ghost dog. Uh, engagement roll. 
Art: Oh, I have a mind link with the ghost dog, so it's all- that's also should help us. 
Austin: That helps. That definitely helps. Alright, so, you start with one die for sheer luck. Is this operation particularly bold or daring?  [some audience member says yes]
[0:30:00]
Keith: No. No!
Art: No. This is basically a milk run. [audience laughs]
Keith: Yeah. This is- this is just something ghost dogs can do. 
Austin: It's just something ghost dogs can do, I guess. Once you have a ghost dog already, it makes it less bold and/or daring. 
Art: Yeah. For us the ghost dog is very mundane. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: This is a dog you have around all the time.
Keith: If this plan included finding a ghost dog. [laughs] It’d be a little tougher. 
Austin: Should I give bold and daring? [audience says yes] Two dice. Is this operation overly complex or contingent on many factors? [audience claps]
Dre: No! It's just contingent on ghost dogs. 
Austin:[shouting] She has to build a dog first! And then they have to possess it with a ghost. 
Sylvia: It’s not that hard . 
Austin: One die. You're back to one [audience laughs]. Does the plan’s detail expose a vulnerability of the target or hit them where they're weakest? 
Art: Yeah!
Sylvia: Definitely. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Art: They're not- they’re not expecting this!
Keith: They’re- Everyone knows Snitch Nightly is weak to ghost. [audience laughs] 
Dre: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Who isn’t? 
Keith: Yeah. Right? 
Austin: Nah, it’s true.
Keith: True.
Austin: Uh, here’s- I'm going to take it away though cause- is the target strongest against this approach, or do they have particular defensive or special preparations? Minus one. Yeah. They have that thing that if too many people come in, it incinerates people-
Keith: What if I-
Austin: -and putting a dog in there early is gonna throw that all off. 
Keith: What if I have a way to make this seem like there's less people?
Austin: Seem like or is less? 
Keith: Well, you tell me. [everyone and Sylvia laugh]
Austin: Well, that’s my job. [everyone laughs more] 
Art: [sing-song; ‘seven note vaudeville fanfare’] Wah-wah-wah wah-wah-wa.
Keith: Ghost Veil. You may shift partially into the ghost field, becoming shadowy and insubstantial.
Austin: This is a really good moment to mention this that Art and Keith made characters who are actually good. [audience laughs and then ooo’s]
Sylvia: We’re sitting next to you.
Dre: What the fuck?
Sylvia: We’re right here.
Austin: That’s honesty. It’s friendship. 
Sylvia: I have a point in Prowl. I have one. 
Austin: Keith can turn into a ghost! 
Dre: I can-
Keith: And Art’s dog can turn into a ghost. 
Austin: That's true.
Keith:  A thing we didn't know is that the Black Slacks are really ghosty. 
Austin: They're very ghosty. It's something we're learning. No, I'll give you that. I think that brings it back up. Back at two. Uh, any of your friends or contacts provide aid or insight for this operation? 
Dre: I don't- 
Sylvia: I don't think I know-
Austin: I don't think so. Are any enemies are rivals interfering? I don't think actively, outside of they're there. Do you know what I mean? But they don't have extra stuff. So, still at two. Any other elements want to consider? No. 
Keith: It's sick. [audience laughs]
Austin: It is sick. But you already got your plus one for it's sick. 
Dre: What about the uh- the mind link? Does that- 
Austin: I think it's still- You just need that- 
Dre: Okay. Okay.
Austin: -to do this. Otherwise, you have to be with the ghost dog the whole time. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: Mind link lets him not do that. Alright. Who's going to roll to engage? 
Art: I mean I have the biggest dice. 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Dre: Yeah. [audience laughs] 
Austin: You got me there. Roll 2d6. 
Art: I thought we were at three.
Dre: I do- I have shiny dice. 
Austin: Ooo, shiny dice. [audience ooo’s] Wait a second. Did you already roll? [Dre laughs]
Art: No. 
Austin: Oh. 
Dre: No, you go ahead. 
Art: Do you want to do one each? 
Austin: Yeah! 
Dre: Oh shit. [dice hit the table]
Austin: Those rolls suck. [audience and Dre laugh] That’s a one and a two. [audience reacts negatively; Dre sighs] It’s a desperate- So- 
Keith: I think-
Art: I got the two! [audience laughs]
Austin: So, when you roll one to three, you start in a desperate position when the action begins. 
Sylvia: It's fine. Where are you guys worried? It’s okay. [audience laughs]
Keith: [overlapped] Can you re-
Dre: Chessex really fuckin’ up on this dice sponsorship. 
Keith: Can you resist?
Austin: No, you cannot resist an engagement roll. No. [audience laughs] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Alright. So, where are you at? So, again, there's- You know, imagine kind of a- a horse racing track type thing. It's like, a greyhound racing- racing track kind of facade. It's kind of crumbly a little bit. It looks real shitty. There's a big fence around it all.
Dre: [amused] Oh, it's a greyhound track. [laughs]
Austin: Greyhound track, yeah. And there's like, a tall fence around it, which is the thing that has been hexed. And also- and maybe you noticed it- Here's what happens. The dog gets in totally fine. Dog finds a way to open like, the first set of doors that will start leading you underground, but when- Who is- who is it that makes the mistake? Who is it that hits the little wire that causes bells to ring all around the facility? [Sylvia raises their hand; audience says aww] Aubrey... 
Sylvia: I raised my hand, yeah. That was for the recording. Yeah, probably me. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Right? 
Austin: You just like, get a little- little foot gets stuck on one of the things.
Sylvia: Yeah. I just- [audiences aww’s again; then laughs] 
Austin: Bad things are going to keep happening.
Dre: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Yeah, I know. But it’s fine. Just some bells right now. 
Austin: Yeah. So-
Sylvia: Nothing has ever bad has happened in Friends at the Table after bells are ringing. [everyone laughs and cheers] 
Austin: Shout outs to Ali. Alright. So, as- Black Slacks, how do you feel about this? As the- you two plus Sige manage to climb over this fence and reunite with Herringbone, the dog- the little ghost bulldog who is now inhabiting a robot dog body- you hear this little bell ringing- these chimes ringing- Hm. Now I’m stuck on it. [audience laughs] Uh, and you hear the sound of people approaching who you've already scouted as members of the Red- uh, the Red- I want to say- I keep wanting to say Red Ring Rico, but that's a character from Phantasy Star Online, so not that. [audience laughs] The Red Rank Irregulars begin to show up. Is this what you bargained for when teaming up with The Six? 
Keith: They were our third choice. 
Dre: Harsh, but fair. 
Austin: Who was your first choice? 
Dre: Yeah. 
Keith: Give me two other factions. Any two. 
Dre: Tea witches. 
Austin: The Heat and the Dark. 
Dre: Oh, yeah. [laughs] 
Keith: It was the- it was the witches. It was the tea witches. [an audience member says, ‘Yes.’]
Austin: And Snitch Nightly. [audience laughs] 
Keith: [laughing] It was Snitch. 
Austin: And he was like, ‘No, that doesn't sound too good. I kinda got another thing goin’ on that night.’
Art: Sporting of him not to remember that it’s this. [Art and Keith laugh]
Austin: Well, maybe that's where he knew where to put the bells. So, yeah. You hear the footsteps of some soldiers approaching. What do you do? Everyone’s looking at the character sheet. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Keith: What happens when a ghost veil person- 
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: -goes through a substantial person? Do they get a- like, a cartoon- like a shiver? Can I try and spook this person? 
Austin: What's the move say?
Keith: It does- it says you may shift partially into the ghost field, becoming shadowy and insubstantial for a few min- for a few moments. Oh! Take two stress when you shift, plus one stress for each extra feature. It lasts for a few minutes rather than moments. You are invisible rather than shadowy. And you may float through the air like a ghost. So, I guess I'm gonna float through the air like a ghost. But I- but I will be- I will stay shadowy, and I'll keep it for a few minutes. So, I'm going to take four stress.
Dre: Can you- [audience reacts to Keith’s many stress] 
Austin: As a reminder, everyone starts at ten stress? Is that right? 
Dre: I think it's ten. So- 
Austin: Nine. Nine. 
Dre: So, while you're doing that, can you like, float by them so they turn around? 
Keith: I think I'm going to try to be like, ‘This is a ghost doing that. I am a gho-’ I want to scare this person away. And, Oh, ghosts ring bells. This is terrifying. I don't want to be here.’ 
Art: [super amused] This is an episode of Scooby Doo. [Someone shushes Art] You're doing an episode of Scoo- You're pretending to be a ghost to scare people away and steal something. 
Keith: And there’s a dog. 
Art: That’s every episode of Scooby Doo. 
Austin: What do you- what do you want to roll for this? As a reminder, you're in a desperate position. What are your stats, actually? Can you go over them? Can we all go over stats real quick? 
Keith: Yeah. So, I have Survey- one in Survey. Two in Tinker, which gives me two in Insight. I have three in Finesse. Two in Prowl. One in Skirmish. So, I have three in Prowess. I have two in Sway, which gives me a one in Resolve. 
Austin: So, you don't have like, Attune or Command or- I guess Sway might work here, depending. 
Art: [laughing] Ghost is gonna sway them? 
Austin: Hey, I've got some ideas. 
Dre: Can I- can I pitch you on a- on a tag team action here? 
Austin: Ooo. 
Keith: Okay. 
Dre: So, one of our team work options is to set up. So, if you could like, distract them and get them turned around, I can just go up behind them and like, smash their heads together and knock them out. 
Keith: Okay. So, this is- I think that makes this a Prowl.
Austin: Yeah, I'll give you that as a Prowl. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: You’re- you’re goal here is to kind of distract them while Sige- So, this is a- this is a setup action then.
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Which means you're gonna roll that, and if you succeed, then Sige gets extra effect or position. So. 
Keith: Got it. Great. 
Austin: Give me a Prowl. [Austin inaudible]
Keith: I have a move called Daredevil. When you roll a desperate action, you get plus 1d to your roll and also take minus 1d to any resistance rolls against consequences from your action. 
Austin: Oh, great.
Keith: Can I add a dice?
Austin: This is the dice. Do you want to push yourself any more than you're already doing? 
Dre: No. [audience laughs]
Keith: Well, not after adding Daredevil. 
Austin: Okay. So, that's three dice.
Keith: Three dice. [shakes dice]
Austin: Lookin’ for a six. 
Keith: [dice hit the table] Six! Two sixes! 
Austin: Woo!
Dre: Nice.
Austin: Two sixes?! [audience cheers] What does that mean? You do- Okay. What happens if you- what happens if you crit on a setup?
Dre: Don't you reduce- but don't you reduce stress? 
Austin: You do reduce stress on a crit. 
Keith: Yeah. I'm- I'm so glad I'm a ghost-- [audience laughs] 
Dre: No more to that sentence. No more to that sentence. 
Austin: Keith Carberry, 2019. What happens it you-?
Keith: How much stress do I reduce? Just one? 
Austin: I don't know what happens if you crit on a setup, but I'm gonna say-
Keith: I guess because it's never happened in Marielda. [audience cheers] 
Austin: [amused] I don't know that The Six ever used set up ever. Not even the once. 
Dre: We probably did. 
Austin: Mm. 
Sylvia: Eh. 
Austin: Maybe. Uh, reduce one's stress until I look and see that it's actually two. And yeah, take extra effect. 
Dre: Okay.
Austin: Take extra effect twice with that crit. 
Dre: Jeez. Okay. 
Austin: So, you're gonna be in- Or, actually, sorry. This actually goes back to- to Keith. Keith, are you giving plus one effect or improved position? 
Keith: Um… position. 
Austin: Okay. So, now it is risky standard for you. 
Dre: Oh. 
Austin: Sige.
Dre: Okay.
Keith: Oh, wait. An effect would make it- 
Austin: Would make it great. Would make a desperate great. 
Keith: Desperate great. Okay. Risky. Not desperate. 
Dre: [whispering] No, no. Desperate great, come on!
Keith: No, wait. 
Art: [quietly] Desperate great. 
Keith: Desperate great? Desperate great. Desperate great! 
Dre: Yeah! Desperate great.
Keith: [shouting] I'm hearing- I'm hearing from the room desperate great!
Austin: Okay. Good answer. Good answer. [clapping] 
Dre: Alright. So, is this a Wreck or a Skirmish? 
Austin: It’s whatever- It's what you want. It could continue to change- 
Keith: The good thing about Sige is that Wreck is like, for vehicles, but Sige is kind of like a car. [audience laughs]
Dre: Well, so Wreck is a place, item, or obstacle. 
Austin: This is not that. You could roll it, but it would be reduced effect. 
Dre: Okay. I'm fine with doing Skirmish. 
Austin: Use Skirmish. 
Dre: It’s a better stat for me. 
Austin: That is a better stat. [Dre shakes his dice] How many dice are you rollin? 
Dre: Uh.
Austin: You got a crit. 
Dre: I got a crit. [audience cheers]
Sylvia: We got two sixes again. 
Austin: That’s- I know. That's a two- That’s a crit. [audience laughs; Art nearly falls out of his chair]
Sylvia: What the hell? 
Keith: [commenting on Art] That was also a crit. 
Austin: I did a search really quick in the book for critical, and literally it says, ‘Two sixes. Suck it.’ [audience laughs] Which I feel like the book is insulting me now. [audience laughs]
Dre: Yeah. So, I do a crotch chop. 
Austin: Okay. 
Dre: And then I pedigree one of them into other. [audience, Dre, and Sylvia laugh] 
Austin: Okay. Bop! Let me tell you. He sells it a lot. [Dre laughs harder] He just like, sounds like The Rock. [someone makes a noise] Yeah.
Art: Dre, can you do the water spit? 
Dre: No!!
Austin: Don't do the water spit!! We’ve got electronics here! Dre-
Keith: You can do it behind us. 
Dre: No. 
Austin: No, you cannot. [Dre continues to laugh] You don't do it either! [more laughter] [There is a pause; audience laughs harder] I’m not looking. I'm not going to look just in case it happens. I need- 
Keith: No, it was just a really funny swallow. [audience laughs]
Austin: Oh, lord.
Dre: Oh, that's my season six character. [audience laughs again]
Austin: It's a bird! It's a bird! It’s a bird. [Sylvia and audience laugh] Alright.
Dre: It's not. [audience laughs and cheers] 
Austin: So... What is- 
Dre: It’s an eighteen plus show, right? 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: Okay. [laughs]
Austin: [hesitant; reconsidering] Uh.. mmm. How many- So, you got a critical success- 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: -on this. But only- but it was desperate great already. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Fuck me. [Sylvia, Dre, and audience laugh] Give me a second.
Keith: The guard is carrying the paper. [audience laughs]
Austin: God. Uh, also, sorry. You do not clear a stress, by the way.
Keith: I don’t?
Dre: Aw, that’s fucked up.
Austin: It's only a crit on a resistance that you get to clear stress. 
Keith: Got it. 
Sylvia: Mm. 
Austin: But you do get increased effect, which carried forward. And so, because of that, I think you knock out these two guards who have like, names and cool little details about them. [audience laughs] But they're knocked the fuck out. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: You knocked out Aberdeen. Aberdeen, they are a eyepatch- wearing, short red hair-having, tanned person with a- with a repeating crossbow. 
Dre: Oh. 
Austin: And they’re just knocked the fuck out. [audience laughs] And then Jenns who- She has like, a really big round body, and she has a big shield that has like, spikes in it. And as you knock her out, the spikes retract back in. 
Dre: Oo. 
Austin: And you see as like, she passes out from your pedigree, I guess- [audience laughs] there's like, some sort of switch mechanism that I'm gonna say requires like, a particular like, interaction that could- I'm just gonna say this. You don't know this. Sige doesn’t notice this. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Aubrey, if you studied this thing, you would eventually learn you could shoot the spikes out of the shield. But we’re not gonna get to see that cause someone knocked them out. [audience laughs]
Dre: Can I- Is the- How big is the big person? Can I put on their armor? 
Austin: No, they’re like, short, and round, and big. 
Dre: Oh, okay. I got it.
Austin: They’re like- Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
Dre: Whereas I'm just tall. 
Austin: You’re tall. You're all big.
Dre: I’m all. Yeah. 
Austin: You’re like, Mark Henry big. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Which is every big. 
Dre: Yeah.
Art:  You're so big that, hypothetically, if you were on a poster, it would be hard to sign it and not be on you. 
Austin: Hypothetically. 
Dre: Hypothetically. 
Austin: The posters are signed, by the way. [audience woo’s] We also- we didn't sign up a handful of them, in case you were like, ‘No, I don't want their fuckin’ signatures on this beautiful art.’ [everyone laughs] So. Um, I'm gonna mark four steps in the clock that is the Red- the Red Rank Irregulars. There are two steps in it left. And you can- you know that when you hear the sound of two- of the door closing- And this is the door that goes downwards- the door that Herringbone unlocked And again, it's a desperate position because you didn't actually change that when you had the opportunity to. And there are two people here. The first one walks out, and she's like, a lithe black woman. And she has no weapons at all. And that's scarier. Cause she just like, closes her fists, and then- That's Zella. That’s Zella. And then there's Bricker. And the only note I have down here is, ‘Bricker’s got a club.’ [audience laughs] Also, I think bricker is a description. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Like, not Brick. Bricker. [audience laughs] What do you all do? 
Art: Brick was on my list of names for this character, and that would have been so funny. 
Austin: That would have been very funny. Let’s retcon it. Let’s do a flashback.
Sylvia: Middle name. 
Art: It’s a flashback, Well, I got my name changed today. [audience and Keith laugh]
Dre: Take out all my papers right here. 
Austin: Yeah, so what do you do? Let's go Aubrey and-or Beau-slash-Brick. I’m gonna say that they come up kind of from a different angle, which is why, at this moment, both Sige and- uh, and Cup are doing- they're dealing with that. 
[0:45:00]
Art: Alright. I will produce a fine pair of pistols, and use Sharpshooter to unleash a barrage of rapid fire to suppress the enemy. 
Austin: Okay. That is a move you're doing. 
Art: That is a move I am doing. 
Austin: That wasn’t just the description you came up with just now? 
Art: Uh... just off the top of my head. 
Austin: Okay. Sylvia, it looked like you had something? 
Sylvia: I want to help, but he can do it. 
Austin: How do want to help? 
Sylvia: I wanna throw a smoke bomb. 
Austin: Ooo okay. So, is this- Are you assisting by like, using gas and-
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: Okay. So take- You take one stress. Uh, Art. you can take plus 1d on this. How many dice do you have? And also, what are your stats? 
Art: I have a three in Hunt. A one in Study. A two in Survey. One in Finesse, Prowl. Skirmish, and one each in Attune and Sway. 
Austin: Okay. So, this is- it sounds like 4d6 desperate stand- or what- Is this some- This is a move you're doing, right? 
Art: Yeah, I have to push myself, which I'm looking up-
Austin: That's take two- take two stress. 
Art: Alright. Two stress. 
Austin: Where- Roll your big dice. 
Art: I’m doing it. Jeez. [shakes dice] [audience laughs]
Keith: And don't let someone else roll one. [dice hit the table]
Austin: That's a five. 
Art: Five. 
Austin: Okay. That's- Wait, you only rolled three of them. You got a plus one from Sylvia helping. 
Art: [die hit the table] That’s a five. 
Sylvia: [simultaneously with Art] That’s a four.
Austin: Still a five. So still- Yeah. Alright. So, on a desperate, on a four or five, you do it, but there's a consequence. You suffer severe harm, a serious complication occurs, or you have reduced effect. I'm gonna say that you- Wait, it was desperate standard was what I said it was, right? So, I actually think that this is limited effect. You do fire at- You fire out at both of them. And Zella actually just like, sprints forward. Bricker gets bricked. [audience laughs]  And is like, ‘Ugh.’ And like, falls backwards into the room and is actively suppressed. But Zella is like, dancing between your volley and is moving closer and closer. 
Art: Can I resist that? 
Austin: You can resist that, which would- I guess the thing is the resistance here would not cause more- would not stop- let you stop Zella, but it would- it would keep her at range. So, you could resist that. Otherwise, she's going to close range on you where she can use those fists. 
Art: Yeah, I mean what- this- 
Austin: Okay. 
Art: Beau dies in ninety minutes anyway. [everyone laughs]
Austin: I would say you should resist with... Let me see a sheet really quick. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Thank you. You should resist with Prowess. What’s your Prowess? 
Art: Three. 
Austin: Alright. So, roll uh… roll 3d6. [Art shakes and throw dice] Re- reroll that last one cause that one just kind of fell. [die hits the table] Alright. So, that's four. So, you take two stress. Six minus your highest result. So, only two stress. So, yeah. Your shots continue to fire and keep her at range. She doesn't close distance on you, but you are still in a desperate position. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: Aubrey. 
Sylvia: Uh, I am looking at- I'm looking at my other fun alchemy stuff real quick. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: I think I'm gonna go with a classic here. Remember choke dust? 
Austin: I- [everyone laughs lightly] How could I forget? Yeah.
Sylvia: So, we're gonna go with the good ol’ pocket sand here. [audience laughs] 
Austin: Okay. 
Sylvia: And I’m toss out some choke dust to try and at least slow her down. 
Austin: Okay. What are you using for that? 
Sylvia: Um… let's see. I was- That could either be... depending on how you want to do it, we could do Tinker or Skirmish for that, I was thinking. 
Austin: It’s up to you. I would say that Skirmish is gonna give you greater effect. 
Sylvia: Okay. I have two dice with Tinker though, so I'm probably gonna go with that one. 
Austin: With Tinker. You only need a- So, it’s a six step clock. We’re at five. You only need one more result. 
Sylvia: Oh, okay. 
Austin: So desperate- desperate limited. 
Sylvia: Okay, um- [shakes dice] 
Austin: So, what are you rolling?
Sylvia: I'm roll- I'm rolling Tinker.
Austin: How many dice is that?
Sylvia: Oh, two. 
Austin: Two. Alright. Anyone- no one helping here. You're not gonna help back, Beau?
Sylvia: It’s fine. 
Art: What does that even look like? 
Dre: You don't need it. 
Sylvia: I got a six. 
Austin: You got a six. Very nice [audience cheers] What does this look like?
Keith: Sylvia-  [inaudible chat]
Sylvia: [quietly] Uh, no, I- My highest number is two. 
Keith: What if you push yourself here? 
Sylvia: Okay.
Austin: Don't- You don't have- Don't push…
Sylvia: It’s fine. 
Austin: Okay.
Keith: No, no, no, not now.
Sylvia: Not for now. 
Austin: Oh, in the future. 
Sylvia: I only-
Keith: I only gave them-
Austin: Don't take more stress. 
Keith: I only gave them two dice.
Austin: They already succeeded. 
Sylvia: Keith- Keith’s enabling me. That’s all.
Austin: I see. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So... So, yeah. I think Zella comes in, is like, about to catch Beau in the face with a fist, and then-  
Sylvia: [makes a throwing motion] ‘Wa-cha-!’ [everyone laughs]
Austin: And then a coughing, choking fit and then falls over. And your pathway in is clear. 
Sylvia: So glad- [inaudible]
Keith: Are we not desperate anymore? 
Austin: You are not desperate anymore. 
Keith: Okay.
Dre: Ehhhh. 
Austin: Nice work. Alright. So, you head down this hallway, I'm guessing? 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: Alright. So is this- I’m gonna give me this choice, basically. This hallway is going- will split and kind of lead around to either the big vault door or the um- the obstructed area that was collapsed. Then that- Those doors that get you all the way in, finally, to the racetrack. Which way are you taking? 
Art: Vault door, right? 
Keith: Well, it's gotta be vault door. Also, Cup is no longer a ghost starting now. 
Austin: Good. Good to know. 
Sylvia: Yeah, I'm- I think I'm able to get us through either one. So... if we want to do vault door, I’m cool with the vault door.
Austin: Alright. So, y'all walk down to this dark hallway. It's lit by torchlight. The torches like, turn on as you walk past them because Marielda’s sick like that. 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: And you come to- You like, make this last turn, and there is the vault door. And there in front of it is the Hospitalier du Tristero, or the Hospitalier again. He does not remember the Tristero part, and he is just like, right in front of you. He sees you. He has his halberd there. He is not like, going to- He is just- His job is to stand in front of this door. That is his job. 
Sylvia: I'm hiding behind the other three. [audience laughs]
Austin: Good call. I think that he, in fact, is going to call out to you. And he says, 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): To those who approach, this is High Chevalier Robert-Renee DeFleur. Who goes there?
Dre: Oh, is this the really big guy? 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: Aw. 
Austin: He's the- Yeah, he’s the big guy. [audience laughs]
Keith (as Cup): I'm Cup. Hi. [laughter]
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Hello, Cup. 
Keith (as Cup): Uh… what's up? 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): I am confronted with a sight I did not think I would see. 
Keith (as Cup): What- 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Four people trying to enter the door I was sent to protect. 
Keith (as Cup): Yeah. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Certainly you've heard about my acumen with the halberd and the gun and also the dagger. [audience laughs]
Sylvia (as Aubrey): Honestly we kind of just heard about it today. 
Art (as Beau): You're not as big a deal as you think you are. [audience laughs]
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): I’m very large. 
Dre (as Sige): Eh.
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): My rates are very good. I have a good deal. 
Keith (as Cup): I just want- I've heard of you. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Thank you. 
Keith (as Cup): Can I- Can we use that door? 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Absolutely not. 
Keith (as Cup): You’re- But you know. 
Dre (as Sige): This was going so good. [everyone laughs]
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): I find that politeness is the most honorable virtue. 
Dre (as Sige): It's probably why your rates are not higher. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Probably. But that is honor. I'm not in this for money. I... I’ve always wanted to be a mercenary. Ever since I first heard stories of them in the books and fables. Ah, young life in Marielda. 
Art (as Beau): Have you considered a career change?
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): No. 
Art (as Beau): Mm?
Keith (as Cup): Are you-
Sylvia (as Aubrey): I think these guys have an opening. [pause]
Keith (as Cup): Yeah. 
Art (as Beau): Yeah. [audience laughs]
Keith (as Cup): Well, and your rates are good, right? 
Art (as Beau): You want to be a Black Slack? 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): How good are good? 
Art (as Beau): Your rate. We’re askin’ what your rate is. 
Keith (as Cup): Your rate. Yeah, your rate. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Well, what is your rate? 
Keith (as Cup): It's fif- it's fifteen percent higher than your rate. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): You don't know what my rate is. 
Dre (as Sige): They asked. You wouldn't say. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): It's private. I'm a very private person. [audience laughs]
Keith (as Cup): You can whisp-
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Finances are not to be discussed in public. 
Keith (as Cup): You can- you can whisper it to me. I'll just- Me. And I won't tell anyone else. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): I'm not going to let you approach me so close that I could whisper. That is an old trick. [audience laughs]
Art (as Beau): Not discussing your wages is a tool by management to suppress the workers. [audience cheers and laughs]
Austin: Um, is that Sway? [everyone and Sylvia laugh] 
Dre: That's just truth, Austin. 
Art: [laughing] Do you feel swayed? 
Austin: You can give me a roll. It sounded like you were making an attempt there. What's your Sway? 
Art: One. 
Austin: Okay. 
Keith: What if one of us has more Sway? 
Austin: The person who said the thing was Art. 
Keith: Can I help- Can I assist? 
Austin: You can take a stress to help. 
Dre: Wait, why don't I take a stress to help? [audience laughs]
Austin: You didn't say much. 
Dre: I said, ‘Eh.’ 
Keith: I said- Hey, I brought the rates back up. 
Austin: You did. That’s what I’m sayin’. You take the stress. Add one. 
Art: You’re welcome to take the stress.
Keith: Oh. Oh, okay. 
Austin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Art: Keith’s tryin’ to help you. 
Sylvia: Also, Sige can like, help him find pants that fit. That's pretty hard for tall people. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: That’s true. 
Sylvia: They probably shop at the same places. 
Austin: So, give me your two dice. [dice shake and hit the table] Nah. [audience laughs] That's a failure. I should've noted, this is just a risky standard. So, I’m not completely fucking you on this one. [reading] ‘You fail badly. You suffer harm, a complication occurs, you end up in a desperate position, you lose this opportunity.’ Uh, did you appro- What- what happens here? Let's think. Uh... Oh, I know. He pulls out his gun and shoots you in the chest. [audience laughs] Take the harm... riddled. It is- So, that is on your sheet....
Art: I would like to resist being riddled with bullets. 
Dre: And can I... Can I protect?
Austin: What's- How’s Protect work in that sense? 
Dre: So, [reading] ‘Face danger for a teammate. Step in to suffer a consequence in their place. You may roll to resist as normal if you wish.’ 
Austin: That you could totally do it. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: This is a level two harm. 
Dre: And I also have a special move. Bodyguard. [reading] ‘When you protect a teammate, take plus 1d to your resistance roll.’ 
Sylvia: Nice. 
Dre: And the rest of that doesn't apply to this. 
Austin: Yeah, I think this is with Prowess.
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: What is your Prowess score? 
Dre: It's three. So, roll four-
Keith: Wow.  
Dre: Four- [shakes dice] Sige big. 
Austin: Sige big. [someone shouts ‘wooo’] 
Dre: Uh, five. 
Austin: Five. So, take one stress. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: So, what's that look like? 
Dre: Um... I think it's as he draws his gun, I draw my gun. 
Austin: Okay. And he fires it. And then, do you just-? 
Keith: Do you shoot a bullet out of the air? [audience begins clapping/cheering]
Dre: Yes. 
Sylvia: Yeahhhh.
Dre: Yes. 
Austin: Yo! What’s good? [Dre laughs; Austin and Dre high-five]
Dre: Cause Sige just has like, a regular gun. 
Austin: Yeah, no. He’s like, [gestures] and throws it away. [laughter] It's a flintlock. He had one shot in it. You know?
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: And I think he says, 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Impressive. Approach. [everyone laughs]
Austin: Stands aside.
Dre: I'm just gonna shoot him. [everyone laughs]
Austin: Give me a roll. What is your- what is your- What are you rolling?
Dre: Uh... Hunt, right?
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: And that’s Shoot. 
Austin: Yeah, risky standard again. 
Dre: I'm gonna use- I'm gonna burn my special armor to push myself here and get an extra die. [shakes dice] 
Austin: What’s your special armor say?
Dre: So, I may expand my special armor to reduce harm from an attacking combat or to push myself. So. [shakes dice rapidly]
Austin: Okay. Yeah. That is this. So, 3d6? 4d6? 
Dre: 3d6. 
Austin: Very shiny dice. 
Dre: [dice are shaken and hit the table] Four. 
Austin: Four. Okay. You got four on a risky roll. Again, you do it, but  there's a consequence. You suffer harm, a complication occurs, you have reduced effect, or you end up in a desperate position. I think they- You fire at him, and then he moves the halberd such that like, it takes the brunt of the blast-
Dre: Mm. 
Austin: -and pushes him back a little bit. It like, burns him a little- Like, it singes his skin. Like, hot halberd singes his skin, but then he like, steps back out and is like, [foley] ‘Bohm.’ He's ready to go again. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Approach. [everyone laughs; a few ‘woo’]
Dre: I mean I will if you all don’t want to do anything. [everyone laughs]
Keith: Um… [silence]
Austin: Everyone lookin’ at their sheets. [laughter]
Sylvia: [quietly] You guys got anything?
[sound beats from the nearby room can be heard loudly, but was not caught on the recording]
Dre: Man, that auction- 
Keith: So, okay. Alright 
Dre: -is going great in there. [laughs]
Austin: Oh, yeah. That’s good. If you hear any sound, that’s the auction going- Oh! I have to start another clock. The auction clock. [audience laughs]
Dre: Sure. 
Keith: [quietly] So, hold- Hold on.
Austin: Uh, there's a four step clock running now. That is until the book is up for auction. There will then be another clock that is the time it takes for the book to be auctioned and handed it off. So. 
Keith: Okay. 
Art: Yeah, we do not have a plan for that part of this. 
Dre: Eh. 
Austin: You’ll get there. Flashbacks. 
Keith: What’s- Uh, so- Um… Describe the scene again to me. Like, where is- where is...? 
Austin: It’s this- Imagine this is a hallway going left to right. 
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. 
Austin: He's down there. Y'all are over there. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Sige shot at him, and he was like, ‘Got it.’ [light laughter]
Keith: Okay.
Austin: But to be fair, he also shot at Sige. And Sige was like, ‘Got it.’ [everyone laughs] Kinda- 
Keith: And now- and now a Sige is going to approach because he asked him to? 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Keith: Okay. Okay.
Austin: Sounds like it. 
Keith: [pauses] Yeah, that's fine. 
Dre: Okay. [everyone laughs] Alright. I put down my gun. 
Austin: Oh, word?! [laughter] Alright. Damn. 
Dre: I'm- 
Austin: Do you have a special contract where you’re like, you can take more hits, like The Rock and Vin Diesel? [laughter] Or is it just you're really gonna go for it? 
Dre: Yeah, I'm just gonna charge him. 
Austin: Okay. Just charge right ahead. 
Dre: Mhm. 
Austin: Alright. What are you rollin’ for that? 
Dre: Uh, Skirmish. [shakes dice]
Austin: Skirmish. This is a skirmish. How many Skirmish dice do you have? 
Dre: Three. 
Austin: Alright. Risky standard. 
Dre: [dice hit the table] Uh, five. 
Austin: That’s a five. Okay. So, he takes the hit head on. What's this- what's it like? You just put your shoulder- Is it a football charge? 
Dre: Yeah. Yeah. 
Austin: Is this a spear?
Dre: Spear. 
Austin: Okay. So, you spear him-
Dre: Mhm. 
Austin: -and then he kind of spears you, but not like Roman Reigns’ spear- 
Dre: Wait. 
Austin: -he takes the hit against the vault door. 
Dre: Oh, okay. 
Austin: And then he pulls his halberd around your back and starts to bear hug you with it. You are in a desperate position. 
Keith: Can I- Can I protect on this? 
Austin: You- How- What are you doing? 
Keith: Okay. So, I have a move called Reflexes. 
Austin: Mhm. 
Keith: [reading] ‘When there’s a question about who acts first, the answer is you.’ 
Austin: Okay. 
Keith: And I also have two pistols. 
Austin: What are you- So, what is the- The thing here is that you would be taking the consequence for him. 
Keith: Right. 
Austin: Which would mean somehow you are the one now in a desperate position. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: So, what's that- What would that look like? 
Keith: I think that it- Instead of grabbing... instead of grabbing Sige, I think it means that this guy is now moving at me with a halberd. 
[1:00:00]
Austin: Okay, sure. Sure. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Sure, sure, sure. You gain his attention. 
Keith: Right. 
Austin: Give me the uh... Oh, yeah. I guess you just- You can just do that. So, suffer this consequence. You are now in a desperate position. You’ve done some good damage to him though. So, those bullets are firing at him- Those bullets- You don’t have to roll for it. You can just- You’ve stepped in to take that- that consequence. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: So, yeah. Now he is charging at you halberd out, ready to stab it into you. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: Cupboard, what do you do? 
Keith: Um-
Austin: Do you just keep firing? Or are you gonna... do some weird ghost shit? 
Keith: I don't think that I'm gonna do the ghost shit because that's so much stress. And I'm gonna save that for later... assuming that I have more stress. 
Austin: Mm. We'll see. 
Keith: But I- I think that I am- I think that I am going to Skirmish. I think I'm going to like, start swinging. 
Austin: Okay. 
Keith: Like, moving- moving past the halberd and swinging. 
Austin: What do you- With your fists? 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Okay. Give me a Skirmish. 
Keith: Alright. 
Austin: This is desperate- This is- Without- with no weapon, this is desperate limited. 
Keith: Uh, I have Daredevil. [reading] ‘When you roll a desperate action, you gain plus 1d to your roll.’ It's limited, you're saying? 
Austin: Yes. 
Keith: How about I'm hitting him with the pistols? 
Austin: Still limited. 
Keith: Limited?
Art: Uh, how about- how ‘bout I assist you- 
Austin: Mhm. 
Art: -using my move, Foresight? 
Austin: Which does what? [laughter] 
Art: [reading] ‘Two times- two times per score, I can assist a teammate without paying stress. Tell us how you prepared for this.’ I'm legally obligated to take these moves in any game. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Art: It is not part of this playbook. [a few cheers from the audience] What if I uh- what if I gave you some brass knuckles before we- we came out here? 
Keith: Oh, yeah. Cup’s a- Cup is- would definitely be a guy with some brass knuckles. 
Austin: I like that a lot. Go ahead and take brass knuckles and do.. uh… The way the says- the way this works is it’d still just be plus 1d, but I'm gonna go ahead and just be like, ‘Eh, it's- it’s-’ I’m down with it. I think it is now- Actually, it should be both. So, take plus 1d, and also because of the fiction, this is now back up to desperate standard. 
Keith: Okay. So, two dice still? 
Austin: What's your Skirmish?
Keith: One.
Austin: So, yeah. Two dice. And then desperate standard. [dice are shaken and hit table] 
Keith: Two.
Art: Ooo. [audience reacts negatively]
Dre: Buddy...
Austin: Brah. [reading] ‘It’s the worst outcome. You suffer severe harm, a serious complication occurs, you lose this opportunity for action.’ Um, take the level three harm impaled. 
Keith: I have to resist this.
Austin: Yeah. [laughter] 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: How are you resisting it? Actually, I'm telling you how you resist it. That’s how this system works. You again would be resisting with Prowess. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: What's your Prowess? 
Keith: Prowess is three. 
Austin: That’s not bad.
Keith: No. 
Austin: Roll three dice. Unless- Is there any- Anyone want to help? Anyone to want to protect? 
Dre: I mean yeah. I could step in to protect. I mean this is kind of like- I mean we're back and forth on-
Austin: You’re doin’ a tag team thing. This is good.
Dre: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 
Austin: I thought you were all gonna be like, you know, sniping at each other, but instead you're doing good work. So, you're going to step in again.
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Alright level three harm. 
Keith: So, I don't have to- I don't have to roll anything anymore. 
Austin: No, you’re good. 
Dre: You said this is Prowess? 
Austin: This is Prowess for this roll. 
Dre: Okay. [shakes dice]
Austin: What is your Prowess? 
Dre: Well, it's three, but again I get that-
Austin: Plus one from Bodyguard. 
Dre: -plus 1d from Bodyguard. 
Austin: Four dice. 
Dre: [dice hit the table] Six. 
Austin: No. 
Dre: Oh, that’s a crit. 
Austin: You got two crits. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Lose- You, in fact not only take no stress, you lose one stress. 
Dre: Heyyy. 
Austin: Nice work. [audience cheers] Uh, what’s this look like? 
Dre: I think right as he is about to stab Cup-
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: I think Sige just like, reaches over and grabs the halberd [laughing; Austin inaudible] and snaps it in half. 
Austin: Yeah. Totally. Absolutely. Love it. It’s- You snap it in half. It begins to fall. He reaches out and catches it. And now he has one hand with the top half the halberd and one half with- one hand with the other half. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: And he's like- [Austin makes some hand action moves; everyone laughs] Um, who hasn't done anything in a bit? Beau, how about you? Or- or- Yeah, no. Uh, you raised your hand, Aubrey. 
Sylvia: Um, so, I got this- I got- So, I'm lookin’ at the items I have- 
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: -and one of them is a blowgun and darts. [audience laughs] 
Austin: Like, [indistinguishable] and the other piece is like, [action move foley], and you're like, [makes blowgun sound].  
Sylvia: Yeah. Exactly. 
Austin: [indistinguishable] We’re in Indiana, I mean. 
Sylvia: Yeah, why not? [audience laughs] Oh... I'm leaving... So, I'm gonna shoot a dart filled with something called Eye Blind poison, which is probably not great. But I feel like will make it pretty hard to hit us. 
Austin: Yeah. That should be a Volley- or a uh- 
Sylvia: Hunt?
Austin: -a Hunt. 
Dre: Hunt. Yeah. 
Sylvia: Okay. I'm going to push myself for that, so I have one die. 
Austin: Oh my god. [audience laughs] Is anyone assisting? 
Dre: Uh, I'll assist. Yeah. 
Austin: Okay. Take a stress and give- 
Sylvia: Okay. [shaking dice]
Austin: -Sylvia on die. So, take- So, two. How are you resisting? Are you just continuing to like, engage? Or-
Dre: Yeah. Yeah. I think it's, you know, I see Aubrey going for her like, dart gun. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: And so I'm like, kind of positioning this guy in a way that has his back to Aubrey.
Austin: Got you. 
Sylvia: Alright. [dice hit the table] That's a three. [audience says ‘aww’]
Austin: Bad news. 
Keith: It's hard to roll dice. 
Sylvia: Yeah. I also did the thing I'm the worst at. 
Austin: Yeah. You did do that. Here's the actual thing that happens is you hit him with the dart, and he goes like, 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): [inhales] Ha! 
Sylvia: Oh no. [audience laughs] 
Austin: Uh, so that’s one. 
Keith: [difficult to hear; quiet] Eye pops out.
Austin: You lose opportunity for action. This is just not- You're not gonna sleep dust this dude.
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: You're not gonna eye poison him. He's built for this. He has done the job of like, getting those resistances up. But also, I think a serious complication occurs. Which is like, he just marches over to you and like, rips the blowgun from your- from your hand and then rips the belt with all your potions from you [audience groans] and smashes it on the ground. You can resist these. 
Sylvia: I have two. 
Austin: You have two what? Potions? 
Sylvia: I have two things of potions. 
Austin: Two belts! Okay. [audience laughs] So, you just use one belt.
Sylvia: Yeah, I got two belts. Yeah. I just finished- That was the last use of the first one. 
Dre: **He’s got-                  **Aubrey is she/her; Sylvia was using they/them and is now she/her
Sylvia: He can break that shit. 
Dre: **He's got two belts. 
Austin: **He's got two belts. Yeah. 
Dre: One for the doorman, and one for the inside. 
Austin: Good. [audience laughs] Alright. Now though is just so big, and you're so small. 
Sylvia: Yeah, that is a big problem. 
Austin: Yeah. Still in desperate position. 
Sylvia: [whispers] Man. 
Art: I'd like- I'd like to shoot this person. [audience laughs]
Austin: Okay. A lot of guns. Marielda didn't have this many guns. 
Art: We're gun people now. [laughs] 
Austin: Okay. True.
Dre: [uncomfortable] Uh.
Austin: Yikes. Give me a- What are you rollin’? Hunt? 
Art: Hunt. 
Austin: Okay. 3d6. Right? 
Art: Yeah. Three is right. 
Austin: Okay. Desperate standard. [dice are loudly shaking]
Sylvia: Those dice are so loud. 
Austin: They are so loud. 
Art: Yeah, creating the effect. 
Sylvia: I just- oh. [audience laughs; dice hit the table] 
Dre: Heyyyy. 
Art: That’s a six.
Austin: Six. 
Keith: I like that you can barely roll them. [laughter] Like, they almost don't fit in your hands. 
Art: I did bring smaller dice in case they didn't work out.  [laughter]
Keith: Got it.
Austin: So, you pull the trigger. 
Art: Yeah. 
Austin: You catch him? 
Art: That's what a six says. 
Austin: And he falls. [audience and Keith laugh] And you see he's dead. He's on the ground. He's bleeding out. And he goes like, 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Remember my name. [audience laughs] Chevalier- [stammers and exhales] 
Keith: We could have just hired that guy. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: We tried. 
Keith: We tried-
Art: He wouldn’t discuss rates.
Keith: No, you did not try. You shot- you shot him. 
Austin: There is the matter of the vault still. 
Keith: Okay I- I can-
Art: Let’s send- Let’s just send Herringbone in. 
Austin: Through the vault? 
Art: Through the vault! 
Austin: And then what? 
Art: He'll open the vault! [audience laughs]
Austin: You've got- [resigned] Okay. You've got a ghost dog, I guess. 
Art: A ghost dog with a mind link. 
Austin: With a mind link. 
Keith: How does it- how does the dog turn the vault thing? 
Austin: Thank you for asking my question, Keith. It makes me feel less bad. [audience laughs]
Art: Well, I- Hold on. You didn't see me pantomime it. 
Austin: Oh yeah.
Keith: Oh, with the mouth. With the mouth. 
Dre: Yeah. [Art mimics a dog opening a vault with the mouth; audience laughs hard]
Austin: Oh, with the mouth! 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: I see. [Art makes a dog ‘Rr’ sound twice] Okay. I'll let you roll it. What are you- what are you rolling for this? 
Keith: I- I should- Before you- [someone makes a noise] decide on this, I have a move for this. 
Art: [laughing] Oh, really? 
Keith: Yeah. [audience laughs]
Art: Let's do this one. [audience laughs harder]
Keith: Infiltrator. [reading] ‘You are not affected by quality or tier when bypassing security measures.’ 
Austin: Okay. Yeah. That's good. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: You still have to roll for it, but this thing is a tier five vault, which would have made it very hard for, let's say, a dog to open it. [audience laughs] You could if it was unlocked, honestly. 
Art: It's not hard to open a locked door from inside. 
Keith: We just did- Okay. 
Austin: We did- Well, we failed, didn’t we? [Dre laughs] We did a safe room. We came very close. [audience laughs] To winning. 
Dre: I wasn't there. 
Austin: You were not there. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: I don't want to sully your reputation. 
Dre: I didn't- I didn't lose. [audience laughs]
Austin: No. Let the records say that Andrew Lee Swan did not lose. So- so, what are you using then to try to open this? 
Keith: Let's see. How about Finesse? 
Austin: I think you can do Finesse, but I don’t know that it’s the best one. Finesse is [reading] ‘Finesse an item from someone's pocket, employ subtle misdirection or sleight of hand, handle a vehicle or mount.’ What would give you better effect here is Tinker. [reading] ‘Tinker with mechanisms to create, modify, disable or repair, disable a trap, pick a lock, or crack a safe.’ 
Keith: Uh, give me- give me the- the effect on both of those. What’s-
Austin: Uh, limited on- on Finesse. Standard on Tinker. 
Art: Use Tinker, and we can use Herringbone to like, go into the- 
Keith: To the safe?
Art: And he can- he can look and see how you're doing. Like-
Keith: Okay. Yeah. 
Sylvia: I also- 
Austin: That’s an idea. 
Keith: Wait. An-
Sylvia: I'm also very good at tinkering. 
Keith: Okay. 
Sylvia: If we want to do that. I have a two in that, and I have fine tinkering tools, as well. 
Austin: This is true. 
Sylvia: So- 
Austin: You unfortunately will have to deal with the fact that-
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: -this is a level five- or a tier five safe. 
Sylvia: So, I could assist then maybe? 
Austin: You could assist. 
Sylvia: -using that. Would the tools help at all with the effect on that or no? 
Austin: No, because you're- I mean you could just give them the tools. 
Sylvia (as Aubrey): Hey, do you want some tools? 
Keith (as Cup): I would love some tools. 
Keith: What are these tools do for me? 
Austin: It doesn't matter because he ignores tier five. 
Sylvia: Oh, right. 
Dre: Okay. 
Sylvia: Nevermind then. 
Austin: It's why-
Sylvia: I like my tools. 
Keith: So, it wouldn't give me a higher effect, which would let me roll Finesse instead of Tinker?
Austin: I would- you know what? I’d let you have higher effect. I think not Finesse though. Still with Tinker. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: Here they are built for tinkering, not for finessing. You can't use like, a lock pick to like, grab a wallet out of someone’s back pocket. 
Keith: There’s- Look. I have a lot of experience picking locks in video games. You gotta do some find some fine thumb motions. [resigned] Okay. 
Sylvia: I also have wrecking tools-
Austin: I’m still letting you roll it. 
Sylvia: -if we want to blow it up.
Keith: No, let’s- That's what- Let’s do the Tinker with-
Sylvia: Okay. 
Keith: -with the tools for- Now great effect? 
Austin: That’s plus one, so take the- for great effect with Tinker, and then take one stress Sylvia-
Keith: To add a die. 
Austin: -to add a die. 
Sylvia: Yep.
Keith: Great.
Austin: You got it. 
Keith: Alright. [shakes dice]
Art: So, I am not assisting.
Austin: You are not a- Save the dog, just in case. Backup plan. 
Keith: Four. 
Austin: Okay. This is just- It’s just takin’ a little while. So. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: I’m starting a clock that is a four step, ‘open this door’ clock. And so, the consequence here is you manage to advance it only two. So, instead of getting the great effect, you get a standard effect. And the- the auction clock has ticked once. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: So, things are happenin’ upstairs. You can hear people moving stuff around. You can hear that they’re going through item after item. There are a lot of items on auction tonight, so it's not just this one book. But they're getting there. 
Keith: So, auction’s at one. 
Austin: Auction is at one of four. 
Keith: One of four. 
Austin: There'll be a second auction clock that will be if it gets up there, which is above you. So, yeah. I would- What's it look like that you only got two here? I think you're able to get through- you're able to get like, the initial like, first step of this vault open. So, it actually begins to open, but then a second set of latches like- like, you can feel it pulling it back. So, you've got like, the door mechanism working, but there is like, a heavy physical latch inside of the door that is like- something is pulling it back on the other side. 
Keith: Okay. I think there's a dog that can help with the latch. [audience laughs]
Dre: Well, like, how- how much- 
Austin: I think it’s like, a little tiny bit of space. 
Dre: Okay. So, it's not even like a cobbin sized space. 
Austin: No, it's too small for a cobbin. 
Sylvia: Ah, damn. 
Austin: A weaver would do great here. 
Dre: Yeah, sure.
Austin: If you had a weaver…
Dre: Shoulda brought Peg. 
Austin: Shoulda brought Peg. Well, no. Incineration. No. [audience and Dre laugh] Should not have brought Peg. 
Sylvia: Are we able to see the latches when it opens a little bit at all?
Austin: Very little. It's like, a very tiny space. 
Sylvia: Would I be able to pour something through there at all? 
Austin: Uh, it’s like, further in than that.
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: It’s like a big, thick door. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: Do you know what I mean? 
Keith: Can you blow it in with your dart gun? 
Sylvia: He broke that. 
Austin: He broke that. 
Keith: Oh, he broke the dart gun? 
Sylvia: Yeah, he took my dart gun and broke it.
Keith: There's not even like a little straw piece you can use? 
Dre: I mean I could- 
Sylvia: No, I mean I don’t- I don’t- [inaudible]
Dre: I could shoot the latch. [audience laughs lightly]
Austin: You could try to shoot the latch. 
Sylvia: Shooting has worked pretty well for us so far. I mean for you guys it works.
Austin: I love to shoot a magic gun in a small space. I love it.
Dre: Yeah. What could go wrong? 
Austin: What could go wrong? That sounds like a Wreck to me. 
Dre: [laughing] It does sound like a Wreck.
Austin: What’s your Wreck? 
Dre: Two. [begins shaking dice]
Austin: Alright. 
Dre: You know, I'll push myself. 
Austin: Alright. Yeah. You got no stress. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: You’re doin’ great. 
Keith: Does- does me continually working on this lock help here at all? 
Austin: You could spend a stress to add- to add one die. 
Keith: I’m good. [audience laughs]
Art: And I would definitely not be close if he's gonna shoot it. 
Austin: [laughs] Yeah, also that. [dice hit the table] Rollin’ those dice. 
Dre: Five. 
Austin: That's a five. Uh, yeah. You... So, you come in. Which you kind of have to like, do a cool bounce shot with it, but you do. You bounce shot it. The latch disintegrates. But at a five, the- the clock on the auction continues to tick down. 
Dre: Okay. 
Keith: But we're in now, right? 
Austin: You’re in now. Well, so the door opens... [audience laughs lightly] Uh… So, the door opens, and two things happen. One, as soon as you step in, lights start to- start to come on. And you hear the like, begin- the whirring of mechanisms that begin because what you see is this is not- this is certainly not the like, maintenance like, center that people said it was. It is like you said, or like I said before, a second track. But what becomes very clear is this is not just a track. It's like, a rehearsal track. All of the dogs turn on and begin to run a race. And then a phonograph begins to play that is like a person being like, 
Austin (as Announcer Recording): An Appropriate Apple takes the lead  in the corner. Broad Boat, For Me? gains.
Austin: And like, is doing a call. And it's all- it's like robots- 
Keith: It's rigged. 
Austin: It's- it's not just rigged. They're like, practicing at it being rigged as soon as you come in the room. And they are off to the races, literally. So, they're just like, sprinting around over and over again. And the thing that you notice is in- So, they're kind of like- they are like clockwork machines, or they kind of have like, a wireframe torso. Think of like,a dress form. 
[1:15:00]
Dre: Mm. 
Austin: And inside of each of them is a book hanging- like, dangling inside. 
Sylvia: Holy shit. 
Austin: And so, there are five of them, and each one has a book inside. You don't know which one is the book. So, that's the first thing that happens. The second thing that happens is worse. And that is- that High Chevalier Robert-Renee DeFleur, who has magic tattoos stands back up. [audience reacts shocked] His flesh, singed. His- the blood already drying. He is now a zombie. And, 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Now I will approach you. 
Austin: And- 
Keith (as Cup): We still want to hire you. Actually, even more now. [everyone laughs]
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): No, I could not be hired now. I've been dishonored by failing to protect this door. I must earn that honor back. 
Keith (as Cup): Nah, I mean if you- you failed to protect the door to us, and we still want to hire you. Which means your honor must still be intact. 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): Mm. 
Keith (as Cup): We watched- we watched you fail and still think that, ‘Wow, you'd be a great addition to our team.’ 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): It sounds like you are describing my utility, not my honor. Unfortunately, I must decline. But I do thank you heartedly for this offer. 
Keith (as Cup): That is so honorable of you to say. [everyone laughs]
Austin: And picks up the broken halberd and begins to walk towards y’all. 
Dre (as Sige): Who's your tattoo artist? 
 Austin (as Robert-Renee Defleur): I don't remember. 
Art: Yo, what if we closed this door? [Keith laughs hard]
Austin: You can try to close the door in time. 
Keith: Hold on. So, I want to read this again. [reading] ‘When there's a question about who acts first, the answer is you.’ 
Austin: Yes. [Dre laughs] Give me a roll.
Keith: Alright. What- uh, Finesse. 
Austin: The thing that you're gonna be- Yeah, the thing that you'll be- This is great effect. This is- You know what? I think is- Yeah. It’s- Yeah. I think this is- this is standard great. And the thing that you're trying to do is make sure it's closed before he can open it. He's still gonna get to it and start- and start pulling on it, but you're gonna have closed it a lot because of that move. 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: So, this is- What is this? This is not really Wreck because it's- you're not really wrecking anything.
Keith: Its Finesse, right? It's being quick and nimble. 
Austin: Yeah, being quick and nimble. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: I’ll give you Finesse. I don't think it’s really Finesse, but I’m gonna give you it for this.
Keith: And here’s the other thing. I've got an amount of stress. 
Austin: You do. 
Art: Big mood. [Keith and everyone laughs]
Keith: And I-
Austin: You’re doin’ great, Art. 
Keith: I do want to accomplish this task. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: Do you have a devil's bargain? 
Austin: Ooo. 
Dre: I mean I can also assist you. 
Austin: No, you can do both of those things. I’ll give you both of those things. 
Dre: Yeah, that’s true. 
Austin: Yeah, I have a devil's bargain. I think I get to tick the clock for the thing going upstairs one more time. The book going upstairs. 
Dre: Yeah, that's fine. 
Keith: No. 
Austin: Okay. 
Keith: No. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: I won’t take the bargain. 
Dre: Alright. So, I take a one stress to assist? 
Austin: One stress to assist. 
Dre: Okay. So, you get an extra dice, Keith. 
Keith: Four. Four dice.
Austin: Four dice.
Keith: Unbelievable. [shakes dice]
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: Feel the raw power in your hands. 
Keith: Six! Two! Critical! 
Austin: Two sixes.
Keith: Two sixes! [audience cheers] 
Austin: Door slams in his face. Uh- 
Keith: And this fucking guy can't unlock a door. [audience laughs]
Austin: No, definitely not. Definitely not. So, not only does he do that, but like, I think actually he reaches out, and it's like, [foley] ‘Brrr.’ He lost an arm. [audiences says ‘aww’]
Keith: Incinerated?
Art: Oh. 
Austin: Not incinerated. 
Keith: Oh, okay. 
Austin: The door closed on it.
Keith: Door closed. Okay. 
Austin: Um, yeah. He's a zombie. Listen. And then you do hear that he is going to continue to throw himself against this door from the other side. 
Keith: Okay. Try it. Whatever. 
Art: Yeah. [audience laughs]
Austin: Yeah. A four step clock for him getting in. 
Art: [incredulous] What?! 
Keith: [simultaneously] What?
Austin: Not the way you think. [audience laughs harder]
Sylvia: Uh, two things. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: One, does his arm also have those tattoos on it that glowed? 
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Dre: Oh, that's bad. 
Sylvia: Second one, I have a movie called Physicker, which is-
Austin: Yes. 
Sylvia: [reading] ‘You can tinker with bones, blood, and bodily humerus to treat wounds [audience groans] or stabilize the dying. You may study a malady or a corpse. Everyone in your crew gets plus 1d to their healing treatment rolls.’ That last part doesn’t really matter. 
Austin: That’s not part of this at all. Yeah.
Sylvia: But I want to study this arm and see if I can figure out a way to slow this guy down. 
Dre: Finally the good Marielda shit. [audience laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: [overlapped] Give me a Study. Give me a Study. 
Sylvia: Alright. So, I got two in that. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: And I'm actually- I'm gonna push myself on this one. [shakes dice]
Austin: Sounds good. 
Sylvia: Because everyone else has done it, and I wanna feel included. [dice hit the table] Oh, that's a four. 
Austin: That is a four. So, I said- Uh, you know what? This is- That's a- It's a Study cause you're tryin’ to figure out- 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: -a real thing. Can you read me the move one more time?
Sylvia: The Physicker description? 
Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
Sylvia: [reading] ‘You can tinker with bones, blood ,and bodily humerus to treat wounds or stabilize the dying. You may study a malady or a corpse.’
Austin: Okay. So... you know that... I mean it's kind of bad news. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: Which is this is very powerful magic. You’ve never seen a tattoo like this. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: You... notice something happens. And this is like, a thing that the audience might get, but you won't. Which is, as the voice of the phonograph speaks and calls out for whatever the first stupid dog name I had was... uh, An Appropriate Apple, it like, reacts to the word ‘apple.’ 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: As a reminder, no one knows what an apple is at this point in Marielda-
Sylvia: Mm. 
Austin: -cause Tristero has removed Nacre from the map. But this body seems to. Which means for us, the audience, this is some weird death Tristero magic going on. So, that is- Like, you don't know that you can deactivate- I guess what you could do is you could deactivate anything that is like, connecting it to the realm of ghosts and the spirit. If you have something that's like, a spirit bone charm or like, a... So, if someone has anti-ghost shit-
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: -that would start to work here. 
Dre: I have a spirit-bane charm. 
Austin: There you go. But you’d have to put it on his body. 
Sylvia (as Aubrey): Someone please help me with this gross moving arm. [audience laughs]
Austin: Two. Speaking of, what did you get? 
Sylvia: Uh…
Austin: A four? 
Sylvia: I got a four, yeah.
Austin: It- As you're studying, it  reaches up and grabs you by your throat. 
Sylvia: Ahhhh. [audience says ‘aww’] Can I resist that? 
Austin: Sure. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: That was gonna put you in a desperate position. 
Sylvia: This would be... what? 
Austin: Prowess again.
Sylvia: Prowess? Okay. I’ve got three in that. 
Austin: There you go. Give me three dice. 
Sylvia: [shakes dice; dice hit the table] That's a six. 
Austin: That's a six. Take zero stress. [audience cheers over Austin] You just like, pull it off and throw it away?
Sylvia: See? I'm strong, too. 
Austin: You’re strong, too. Yeah. [audience claps/cheers] 
Sylvia: That’s right! 
Austin: Aubrey’s strong, too. Agreed. Alright. So, what are you doin’ about this weird dog track situation? 
Keith: Get all the books from all the dogs.
Art: And maybe like… Can we make some money off of that? Can we like-
Austin: [incredulous] What?! 
Art: We know who’s gonna to win the race. 
Dre: Yeah. No. Good call. [everyone laughs] Yeah. Who wins this race? 
Austin: They’re- So, they're going through like, a series of races. They basically have like, thirty different races that they run. 
Art: So, I'll win thirty races. 
Austin: Actually, it’s more like wrestling probably, which is like, there's a start and a finish. And like, there might be some spots, but like, they don't like- The overall booking is booked. [Dre laughs] But the- Along the way, they find some room for like, flair. 
Dre: One dog pedigrees another dog into another dog. [everyone laughs]
Austin: [laughing] Yeah. Exactly. Exactly like that. So, yeah. How are you going about catching these dogs? They're very fast. 
Sylvia: Can I mess up the track? 
Austin: You could try. How do you do that?
Sylvia: Cause um… Well, I- One, I have- I have fine wrecking tools. 
Austin: You do. 
Sylvia: So, I’m very good at breaking things. 
Austin: Yes. 
Sylvia: But also, I just kind of want to ruin the like- cause they're running on like… um, like rails basically, right? 
Austin: They are running down rails. They are dogs. 
Sylvia: They are  robot- Okay.
Austin: They are- They’re actually clockwise dogs that move around. 
Sylvia: I want to just like-
Austin: They are not just on- They're not like the rabbit that gets chased. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: That's also there though. [lightly laughs]
Sylvia: Alright. 
Art: Is it a real rabbit? 
Austin: Yeah. 
Art: Cause it's clockwork- [Keith laughs over Art] 
Austin: Yeah. It’s well-fed. They take care of it. 
Sylvia: I think that I'm just trying to like, obstruct the course probably by damaging the things- the rails that they're running on.
Austin: Yeah. That makes sense. Give me a Wreck. It sounds like- 
Sylvia: Yeah. Yeah. 
Austin: Again, you could tell me what you use. Uh, this is uh- This is controlled standard. 
Sylvia: And my... 
Austin: Oh, wait. You have fine-
Sylvia: Fine wrecking tools. 
Austin: Controlled great. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: This is a six step clock to catch them and figure out what the book is and all that. 
Sylvia: Okay. I gonna push myself on this one, too. 
Alright. So, you have three dice. 
Sylvia: Can I borrow dice from somebody? 
Dre: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Thank you.
Keith: Didn’t I give you a third?
Sylvia: Yeah, I lost it. 
Keith: Oh, okay. 
Austin: Take the big dice instead. 
Dre: Oh, it's right there. 
Austin: It’s right there. 
Sylvia: Oh, it’s the- Okay. Well... Op! [Sylvia drops the dice off the table] Well.
Austin: Well, now you’ve lost that one. [everyone laughs]
Dre: Here. Just- just roll that one. 
Austin: Just roll that one. And roll it well. 
Sylvia: No, it’s-
Austin: No. 
Sylvia: I got two ones and a three. So…  [audience says ‘aww’] Didn’t go well.
Dre: Fuckin’ big dice.  
Austin: Um, they're way faster than you thought. 
Sylvia: I have very little legs. I can't keep up. 
Austin: Yeah. Take trampled. 
Sylvia: Oh! 
Austin: A level two harm- Or a level one harm. It’s controlled.
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: Or- or actually I will say you could do that to continue down this line of path, or you can move into a risky situation and try a different approach, basically. Again, you are not gonna- They are moving at too- they're moving too quickly and almost defensively. Where they're gonna keep tryin’ to charge into you, if you keep going down this path. And that would be risky.
Sylvia: Okay.  I have an idea. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: So, I'm looking at... I'm glad I had that second bandelier of things.
Austin: Yes. 
Sylvia: When that rude man took it from me. 
Austin: Mhm. Oh, I’m gonna- That's the other thing is I'm ticking both his clock- 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: -and I'm ticking the- the upstairs clock. 
Sylvia: So, I'm going to be using something here called Drift Oil. 
Austin: Okay. 
Sylvia: And I'm basically just pouring a bunch of oil on the ground to make them slip, like a cartoon. [audience laughs]
Austin: To make them drift. 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Sylvia: To make them drift. Tokyo style. 
Austin: Okay. Two of you using drift.
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: [amused] Haven't I seen you drifting? Uh, alright. 
Keith: Who knew this was gonna keep being Scooby Doo? [audience laughs]
Austin: I know, right?
Sylvia: I did. I had a hunch.
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: So, yeah. I will say this is gonna be... So, you took the trampled, right? 
Sylvia: Uh, yeah. I did. Yeah, yeah. 
Austin: Okay. 
Sylvia: I’ll write it down. 
Austin: So, take the trampled. That's level...
Dre: Oh, Jesus. 
Austin: That’s level two, which is bad. 
Sylvia: It’s level two? I think you said it was level one.
Austin: Did I say level one? [audience can be heard responding]
Sylvia: You said level one. 
Austin: Oh, it’s level one then. 
Dre: Can I- Alright, can I-
Sylvia: Thank you for corroborating that. [audience laughs]
Dre: I wanna- 
Austin: Okay, go ahead. 
Dre: I want to protect Aubrey from being trampled. [laughs] 
Austin: Alright. Take- take the level one harm or- Are you then rolling to resist it, I’m guessing? 
Dre: Yeah, I'm gonna resist it. [begins shaking dice]
Austin: Okay. So, again Prowess.
Dre: Uh, three. So, I take three stress.
Austin: So, take three stress. Where you at on stress? I
Dre: Uh, it's fine. [audience laughs] 
Austin: It's not. Narrator voice. 
Dre: I got two left. 
Austin: Oh, cool. 
Sylvia: Uh… 
Austin: Two left?! 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Two is not any stress. 
Dre: It’s fine.
Keith: Aw, come on. We're like, what? Halfway done? 
Austin: No. More than that. 
Keith: We are? Okay. 
Austin: Yeah. You're doing fine. 
Dre: Yeah, so it's fine. 
Austin: Yeah, it’s fine. But don't take two more stress. Sige doesn't have another trauma in the finale. [everyone laughs] 
Dre: Ah. 
Austin: Okay. [everyone laughs] Things come into focus. So, you're going to try again-
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Austin: -but with this other method, which is- So, wait. Do you just jump in front of one of these- these dogs? 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Okay. And it just runs right over you. You're surprised the force it can get. So. 
Keith: Is this before or after the oil is there? 
Austin: The oil is about to be there. It's another attack. 
Keith: Okay. Got it. 
Sylvia: I feel like if the oil was there, this would go worse for Sige. 
Austin: So, again, I want to say this is risky- this is risky standard. 
Sylvia: Okay. [shakes dice] And Wreck again?
Austin: And Wreck again. [dice hit the table] 
Dre: Yeah! 
Sylvia: Uh, that’s a six. 
Austin: That’s a six. There you go! [audience cheers] So, standard. That's two ticks here of the clock. You- They begin to slip and slide around, which is useful because actually, you notice as they begin to slip and slide, that a hook from like, on a rope has been lowered down. And you realize that one of them is gonna get pulled up by that hook upstairs into the auction hall. The one presumably with the book. But that hasn't happened yet because they're sliding all over the place. 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Dre: Can we tell which one the hook is going for?
Austin: No, it’s just- it's in a place. 
Sylvia: Okay. 
Austin: Like, waiting for one of them to like- to like, lock onto it. 
Sylvia: Gotcha. 
Austin: Black Slacks. Y’all haven't done some shit in a while. What's up with you? 
Art: Yeah, I don't know that I can help this particular situation. 
Austin: Even with a ghost dog?
Art: I think the ghost dog is more useful somewhere else. 
Austin: Oh. Okay. 
Art: Which is upstairs messing up the auction. 
Austin: Okay. [audience laughs] 
Dre: Do you- Does your ghost dog just jump on that hook? 
Art: Yeah. 
Dre: Okay. [laughs] 
Austin: Alright. 
Art: Well, grabs onto the hook probably as a regular dog. [laughs] Goes up. Turns into a ghost dog. 
Austin: Oh! It's a dog that can turn into a ghost dog. 
Keith: Right. 
Art: Yeah. It's a regular dog with a ghost form. 
Sylvia: Okay. [audience says ‘ohhh’]
Keith: I thought we covered this earlier. 
Sylvia: No, we didn't. I don't think we did. 
Dre: No. 
Keith: We totally did. 
Austin: Okay. 
Dre: We've just been calling it a ghost dog. 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Art: Well, that's the exciting part. 
Keith: Uh, yeah. A regular dog with a ghost form is still a ghost dog. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Are you sending Herringbone up as a ghost or as a regular dog? 
Art: Again, grabs the hook is a regular dog. 
Austin: Got it. 
Art: Gets up there. 
Austin: Okay. So far so good. 
Keith: Is it like a- like a Jack Russell terrier holding like, a thing, and you pull them up, and they're like [foley] ‘ahhh’? 
Art: Yeah. 
Austin: But wait. Also- Wait, wait, wait. The thing is you- Are you just putting it there so that when the hook goes up, Herringbone is there with whatever it takes up? Or are you hoping that Herringbone will like, hand over hand climb and stuff? [audience laughs]
Art: No, I don’t think dogs can do that. 
Austin: Yeah, that's my thought. [everyone laughs again] A ghost could. 
Art: But a ghost- No. 
Austin: Okay. [audience laughs] If you say so. I don’t- [Dre laughs] You know more about ghost dogs than me, I guess. 
Art: It’s still paws, you know? 
Austin: They can float. 
Dre: Yeah, they’re ghosts. 
Art: All ghosts can float? [audience laughs]
Keith: My ghost can float. 
Art: That's not what I asked. 
Keith: I'm just saying I know one ghost, and it's me. And I can float. 
Austin: Yeah. Maybe it's a heavy ghost. I don't know. I don’t- We'll play to find out what happens. 
Art: I mean I think like, a heavy, clumsy ghost dog is like, a more endearing image.
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: Yeah. [audience says ‘aww]
Art: See? 
Austin: Yeah. [everyone and Dre laugh] 
Art: No one aww’ed for climbing. 
Austin: Alright. Here's what I’m gonna propose. I think if the dice go well, what we see is the dog latches onto the rope. Then we cut somewhere else. And when we cut back, then the dog is at the top of the rope. [everyone laughs] Who knows?
Keith: It- Well, it cuts- it cuts to everyone saying, ‘Wow! Look at the dog climbing that rope! [everyone laughs] That's wild!’ 
Austin: What are you rolling for this? This sounds like Command? [amused] Or Consort, depending on how friendly you are. 
Art: Well, I-
Keith: It wouldn’t be Attune? 
Art: It's a- it's a mind link, so I'm doing it. Yeah. 
Austin: Now… [audience laughs]
Dre: That’s not how a mind link works. 
Austin: Professor Xavier isn't like, controlling… No.
Art: Sometimes he is. 
Austin: Sometimes he is. 
Keith: There are-. 
Austin: That’s bad. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Art: I mean... 
Austin: It’s bad. [everyone laughs again] What are you doing?
Art: I mean I tell- [stammers] I tell my dog what to do all the time! It's not bad. 
Austin: Mabel goes like, ‘Yeah.’ Or like, [mimicking a negative answer] ‘Rrr.’ I'm sorry.’ Or whatever Mabel. I haven’t seen Mabel in a little while.
Dre: Mabel has free will. 
[1:30:00]
Austin: Mabel has free will. [some people laugh; Austin pounds the table in beat] Mabel has free will. [everyone laughs] Mabel is Art’s dog. Just to clarify. [everyone laughs again]
Dre: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Not a ghost. [more laughter]
Austin: Not a- No. 
Art: I don't have any of these skills you're talking about. [everyone laughs]
Austin: But you do have a ghost dog. 
Keith: Can we not just like, toss the dog wicked high and have it latch on top? [everyone laughs throughout] Like Sige could throw that dog way high.
Austin: [shouting] No, you can’t just toss the dog wicked high! 
Keith: [shouting] If good dog misses, then it can turn into a ghost! 
Austin: If you launch this dog, I’m leaving. I quit. [continued laughter] Don’t hurt this dog. This precious…[foley] ‘Rrr.’ I do like the idea of this dog being like- you pitching that, and the dog being like, like [grunting].
Keith: Yeah. [laughs] 
Dre: Yeah, I'm not fastball specialing a dog. 
Austin: [laughing] At a rope! 
Art: We can't do all these X-Men references and then not have a fastball special. [audience laughs] This is Chekhov's X-Men. 
Austin: You could try throwing it, but that's gonna be limited... and they're- and desperate. 
Keith: I- The dog can negate the damage by ghost forming on the way down as-.
Dre: Why don't we send the person that can climb and turn into a ghost up the rope? 
Sylvia: Also, you can climb up this. [audience laughs]
Keith: But isn't the- isn't the dog leaving the scene? That's the whole idea, right? The dog is leaving the scene to go cause trouble.
Art: Yeah, the dog is more disruptive to an- You carry the dog. [audience laughs]
Dre: I don't know. If I was walking down a hallway- 
Austin: Right. 
Dre: -and I saw a ghost dog-
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: I'd be like- I mean I'd be weirded out cause it's a ghost. But like, ‘Aw, doggy.’ [more laughter] If I saw- if I saw a ghost person... 
Keith: I'm not- 
Dre: -I’d be way more freaked out! 
Keith: Yeah, I'm not- I'm not taking three stress to carry a dog up a rope. [audience laughs]
Art: Okay. But I would like to remind everyone of the movie series Beethoven. And then- [more laughter]
Dre: I wish you wouldn't. 
Art: Dogs can be really disruptive of formal affairs, [amused] like auctions. 
Dre: [laughing] We've been talking about Scooby Doo this whole time and you just go to Beethoven? [laughs]
Art: Scooby Doo is a- is not wrecking things. 
Keith: I don't know about that. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Yeah, no that’s-
Austin: That’s solid, but I mean-
Dre: Alright. What if I climb up the rope, and then just like, toss the dog up there? 
Keith: This sounds like my plan, but with more steps. But it's fine. 
Dre: And less squishing a dog on the wall. 
Art: [laughing] What do I have to roll to get the- just get Herringbone to grab the hook?
Austin: A what- Huh.
Dre: Oh, that's right. If he grabs the hook, and the hook senses weight, is like that how it works? 
Austin: Maybe? 
Dre: Alright, just do that. We'll see if it works. [audience laughs]
Austin: Command would be like, commanding an animal. But I would let you do Cons- I would let you pitch me on things, and I'll tell you what the effect is.
Art: Alright. What about Attune cause it's a ghost dog? 
Austin: Yes! I said yes to that one! [audience laughs] Forever ago. 
Sylvia: So, we got our Abbott and Costello bit in. Okay.
Austin: Risky standard.
Art: Alright. I'm gonna to push myself. Or do you have a devil's bargain? [audience laughs]
Austin: Yes. Something comes through the vault door. [audience says ‘ohhh’]
Art: Anything? 
Austin: Something I decide comes through in the vault. 
Dre: It's fine. 
Keith: I have a good idea about what that something is. [more laughter] 
Art: Can we have like, a devil's negotiation thing? [Dre is inaudible; Keith laughs] I just want like, one veto on a thing that comes through the door. 
Austin: So, I get to pitch you a thing that comes through the door? 
Art: And I get one veto. 
Austin: Yeah, sure. 
Art: Great. [audience laughs] 
Sylvia: [shocked] We can do that?! [more laughter]
Austin: House rules are real. 
Dre: We shouldn't. Cause it’s only gonna get worse.
Keith: It's- the second thing is going to be worse. 
Art: Well, then I can take the first one. 
Keith: That wasn’t part of the devil’s negotiation!
Art: You can always not veto. 
Dre: [laughing] Devil’s negotiation! [audience laughs]
Keith: That was Art’s line. That was Art’s line
Dre: Oh, we gotta fuckin’ roll dice. 
Art: [shaking dice] You know what? This is a very important roll. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: Yeah. [audience reacts as Art turns around and reaches into his bag] 
Austin: Oh, this motherfucker. [everyone screams, cheers, and laughs as Art pulls out even bigger dice; Austin walks away & comes back] Art brought out bigger dice!
Keith: Much- significantly big- Can I borrow one? [Keith holds up his small die next to Art’s big and bigger dice]
Art: Big dice, big luck. 
Sylvia: Can you roll those? 
Austin: Be careful. 
Dre: Do you need a roll those on the stage behind us? 
Keith: This is going to be like a thunder on the zoom mics. [laughter]
Austin: Good. In some ways, good. [thud as the dice hits the table] A four. 
Keith: That was so close to being a six. 
Austin: It was so close. 
Keith: And then it did some shit that only a giant die could do. [laughter]
Austin: Wait. What was with the- That was bargain dice. 
Keith: Wait, what?
Art: What?
Austin: Did you add the devil's bargain to that? 
Art: Yeah, that's it. 
Austin: Okay. So, yeah. You attach the dog to the rope. [audience laughs] Um, and it-
Keith: Wow. 
Austin: And it pulls up. It does the thing. It feels the weight. It pulls the hook up. And I uh, erase one of the things because it's not goin’ up there that quick. So, it’s- you have more time to deal with these books down here. Is it in a ghost form when he gets up there? What's this look like? 
Art: I think we're gonna wait for- for him to get up there- 
Austin: Okay. 
Art: -and then ghost form.
Austin: Okay. So, someone sees it like, ‘Oh, nice dog.’ And then [transformation foley] ghost form. 
Art: Yeah, I imagine it's a little bit like those twins from The Matrix sequels.
Austin: Thought you were gonna say The Shining. [audience laughs] Basically the same. 
Art: I mean it would be terrifying if a dog turned into [laughing] the twins from The Shining. I would stop having an auction if that- [laughing]
Austin: Immediately. The blood alone. Ey. 
Dre: How the fuck is this like anything from the Matrix? 
Art: Well, no. You know how they were like- they were like people... 
Sylvia: Yeah, okay. 
Dre: Is this the people with like, the white... 
Austin: Dreadlocks?
Art: The dreads and the- 
Keith: Yeah, it’s the white guys with the white dreads. And they turn into the horrible ghosts. 
Art: They turn into horrible ghost version of themselves. 
Dre: Oh, I forgot about that part. [audience laughs]
Art: That's what made them so formidable. 
Dre: Yeah. I forgot a lot about that.
Keith: They’re in a really long scene. 
Sylvia: Yeah. Morpheus cuts a car in half with a katana. 
Dre: I remember that part. 
Sylvia: Yeah. It's the only thing I remember... In general. [audience and Keith laugh]
Art: We have to remind Sylvia of just everything all the time. Sylvia comes to any recording with, ‘So, Morpheus-’ [inaudible as everyone laughs] And like, ‘We’re recording a podcast.’
Dre: And then like, I have to be in the background making the Mona Lisa Overdrive noise. [mimics this sound; Austin laughs] Ban-na, ba-ba-ban-na, ba-ba-ban-na.
Sylvia: You have no idea how many takes the rest of Hieron took. 
Austin: It was wild. Alright. So, something comes through the door. I'm trying to decide which of the two things I have in mind is first. [an audience member says, ‘Oh god.’] Let's- Let me pitch. 
Art: Wait. It's only one thing comes through the door. 
Sylvia: Yeah, but you-
Austin: Yeah. So, I’m tryin’ to decide which to pitch you. 
Dre: [overapped] Do you wanna like, flip a coin?
Austin: You still get to decide which one actually comes through the- Yeah. Let’s flip a coin. 
Dre: I think I've got a coin. 
Austin: You got a coin? 
Dre: This is gonna be really embarrassing-
Art: You can roll a die. [laughter]
Sylvia: Yeah. We have a lot of dice. 
Austin: We can find a coin, for sure. 
Sylvia: Okay.
Dre: Oh, god. I don’t think it’s a quarter, but I have a coin in there. 
Austin: Just a coin. 
Keith: What do you have?
Dre: I have a quarter. Here you go.
Austin: Thank you. Alright. I'm gonna whisper something to you. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: Very quietly. [audience laughs hard] [Austin whispers to Dre] 
Sylvia: So, how are you? 
Dre: Oh! 
Art: Great. 
Sylvia: Okay, good.
Keith: I have a- Oh. I have a coin. [a thud can be heard] 
Sylvia: Damn it! 
Keith: Okay. 
Austin: So, it's not the thing I just said to you. Which is gonna get interesting based on if Art decides to veto it or not. I'll say that the other thing is afterwards, if Art vetoes this. Uh, it is-
Art: Now I feel pressured to veto it. 
Dre: Wait. So, if he doesn't veto, you won’t tell- 
Austin: I will. I’ll say what both of these are by the end of the session. 
Dre: Okay. 
Austin: Um, so- So, don't feel bad. Because it's- it's cool no matter what. High Chevalier Robert-Renee DeFleur comes through, as a ghost, the vault. 
Keith: Stage three. 
Austin: Stage three. 
Keith: Ask Dre. 
Dre: Aw, no. I'm not saying anything. This was told in confidence. [laughter]
Art: [whispers] But you’re on our side. Just like- 
Keith: Okay, but like- What is your-? 
Sylvia: [quietly] Alright. Can we get a hint?
Keith: Like, how about-?
Austin: Aw, maybe you should veto this. [audience laughs] The other one is so good. 
Art: Alright. 
Austin: But it's- but it's- but it’s- It might be too much. 
Art: I'm gonna applause meter this. [audience and Sylvia laugh]
Austin: Do we have an applause meter? Did we get that?
Keith: It’s me. I’m the applause meter. 
Austin: Okay. Natural applause meter. 
Art: If you- 
Austin: You can make any sound or judge any sounds. [everyone and Dre laugh] 
Keith: I have to- I have to fully- I have to fully- [mumbles; closes eyes; audience laughs]
Austin: Shh. We need absolute silence- 
Art: Okay. 
Austin: -while we calibrate our applause meter. 
Art: Tell me when you’re ready. If you want me to veto this, applaud now. [loud applause] For no veto, now is your time to applaud. [quieter applause] 
Keith: [shouting] It is vetoed! It is vetoed by a mile.
Art: [laughing] I don’t think we needed a calibrated meter there. 
Keith: I- Well, I... Oh, I didn’t know. It's- I'm so good at it that I don't know where other people are. 
Austin: Okay. Well, this is good. This is good. 
Dre: So, you’re gonna veto? 
Austin: Are people up to- Hm. [audience laughs] 
Sylvia: Yeah, I know- [more laughter] 
Austin: Alright. So, you vetoed? 
Art: Yeah. The people have spoken. 
Austin: You hear a shout from the other side of the room with the vault. And then the vault begins to open. Not like, open like a ghost would open it. Like, open it like someone who could like- knows the combination a little bit. It just instantly begins to open and swings open and the room is filled with bright shining light. And Samothes enters the room. [audience cheers] 
Keith: Why? [audience laughs] 
Austin: There’s a book in here he wants. 
Dre: Yeah, we're stealing his shit. 
Austin: What do you do? 
Art: I'm going to shoot that guy. [audience laughs and claps] [shakes dice]
Sylvia: Fuck yeah! 
Austin: Fuck ‘em up, [???]
Art: Six. 
Austin: Okay. [audience cheers; someone screams] You shoot Samothes. 
Art: With ectoplasmic ammunition. 
Austin: What’s that do? 
Art: It doesn't say. 
Austin: Okay. [Keith and audience laugh hard] Oh my god.  
Keith: I didn't know you had ghost bullets. 
Art: I do
Sylvia: You both love ghosts. 
Keith: Yeah. We’re the Black Slacks. And no one knew that about us until now. [laughter] But it's really important. 
Austin: I think when you hit him with the ectoplasm bullet, the light stops. But he steps forward. And it like, flickers for a moment. 
Dre: Can I do a flashback? 
Austin: Yeah. [audience member says ‘Yeah’] Sige and Samothes hangin’ out in a cafe. [audience laughs]
Dre: No. 
Austin: [jokingly as Samothes] ‘How you doin’, man? You alright? How you been? How’s the family?… Ugh. Sounds rough.’ [more laughter]
Keith: Samothes is a jerk. 
Austin: Samothes just walked into a room. What? 
Dre: So, this isn't the first time we've like... robbed indirectly from Samothes?
Austin: Indirectly? [everyone laughs]
Sylvia: Yeah. Or directly. 
Austin: Directly. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: Like, Sige is the kind of person that's like, ‘Alright. If I ever have to fight a god-’ 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: -’how am I going to do it?’ 
Austin: Yeah. Oh, is that what Sige is like? 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Hm. 
Dre: [stronger] Yeah. [audience laughs]
Austin: Weird how that shakes out. 
Dre: So. [audience reacts with ‘ohhh’]  I don't know what you’re talkin’ about. 
Austin: Okay…
Dre: So, who would Sige go to to ask about how to best punch Samothes? [Sylvia laughs]
Austin: Do you have an answer in your head? 
Sylvia: Uh, no. 
Austin: Wait. Do you know?! 
Sylvia: I think- I got a guess. 
Austin: Yeah. Who is it? 
Sylvia: Is it Maelgwyn?
Austin: Oh, it's probably Maelgwyn. [Dre and audience laugh] 
Dre: God.
Sylvia: Tell me how to punch your dad. 
Austin: Oh my god. 
Dre: ‘I heard you were gonna stab him, but I want to punch him first.’ 
Austin: That hasn’t happened yet. 
Dre: Yeah. [laughs] 
Austin: That hasn’t- Yeah. What do you ask? What are you trying to get from this flashback? 
Dre: [sighs] Well, like, okay. I think Sige is smart enough to know that he's not gonna like, win.  
Austin: Sorry, I'm just checkin’ on the stress you take. 
Dre: Yeah. No, yeah. The most I can get out of this is the two stress part of a flashback. [laughs]
Austin: Let me verify. This is a two stress flashback, and you instantly got- you passed out. [Sylvia laughs]
Dre: Right.
Austin: Honestly, appropriate. 
Dre: Yeah. So, I think Sige smart enough to know-
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: -that you can't like, straight up beat a god. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Dre: But it's like, ‘Okay, if we're ever in a point where like, I have to create enough space between us and god to get away, like, what can I do to slow him down? To impede him? To-’ 
Austin: I think Maelgwyn wants to know... Really gotta know which god you're talkin’ about. 
Dre: Samothes. I mean that's one we steal from mostly. 
Sylvia: [simultaneously] That’s who we steal from. 
Dre: Yeah. [everyone laughs]
Austin: Like the- His honest answer is there is nothing you can do. But the- I think the thing that he tells you that Samothes likes most is the thing that- that his like- one of his one of his many tragic components, one of the things that makes him who he is is that he's curious. And so, if you can keep him entertained... if you can keep him like, interested in whatever you're doing, in terms of like, ‘Oh, that's clever.’ If you can do something that he thinks is clever, he will not bring to bear the full might of his power. 
Dre: Oh god. Okay. 
Austin (as Maelgwyn): So, it's about brains.
Austin: -he tells you, Sige. You can go vote. You’re not- You’re not like-
Dre: No, no. I'm not stupid.
Austin: No... But. 
Dre: But. [everyone laughs] 
Austin: Impress a god is kind of a high bar. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: That's a zero stress flashback. 
Dre: Oh, okay.
Austin: It’s totally viable that you would have had that conversation. 
Dre: Okay. 
Keith: I have- I have-
Dre: Can I just do a lot of pushups? Like- [laughs] 
Austin: No. No. Samothes literally invented the push up. So. [audience laughs]
Dre: Damnit.
Keith: I have a question. 
Austin: Sure. 
Keith: I guess not- It's less of a question. It's more of a thought. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Keith: Like, you know, we're tryin’ to make a buck. 
Dre: Many. 
Keith: Can Samothes like, just take his stuff back later? Like, 
Keith (as Cup): Can we just get this, sell it, and then you can steal it from them?
Austin: It- One, it's not stealing when Samothes takes his book back. 
[1:45:00]
Keith: Okay, fine. 
Keith (as Cup): Can we borrow it to sell it, and then you can take it- you can have it back from the next-?
Austin: Why don’t you just ask him for money at that point? [audience laughs]
Art (as Beau): Hey, Samothes. You got any money? [laughter] Sorry for shooting you just now. I thought you were gonna be a zombie. 
Keith (as Cup): Also, which one of these books is yours? 
Austin: So that we may take it. 
Keith (as Cup): We're going to take it, and you- Can you come back later for it? [laughter] 
Art: Is this working? 
Keith: No. 
Austin: Yeah, are you in character? Is this-?
Keith: What?
Austin: Is this in character? 
Keith: Yeah. [everyone laughs again] 
Dre: Keith just plays Keith. Like. [laughter]
Austin: Yeah. I know. I forgot. I think he says- 
Keith: Hold on. That's not fair. I think this is a stupid idea. [audience laughs]
Austin: Alright. 
Dre: Fair. Fair, fair, fair. 
Austin: I think he smirks at you which is to say, a little bit entertained by this. 
Keith: [shouting] There we go! Right? That’s- [audience claps] 
Keith (as Cup):  If you can have it back whenever, why not have it back in a little while?
Austin (as Samothes): Because I haven't had it in a long time, and I'd like to.
Keith (as Cup): Can you thumb through it? [audience laughs] 
Austin: Give me a Sway. Risky standard. 
Art: Oh, op! Oh, mm. 
Austin: You shot him. You're not gonna do shit. [everyone laughs]
Art: I'm gonna Foresight this. 
Austin: Oh my god! What do you- what do you- [shouting] What?! [laughter] What?! I’m gonna read what Foresight does-  
Art: [reading] ‘Two times per score-’ and for the record this would be two-
Austin: Yeah. Sure. 
Art: -’you can assist a team mate without paying stress. Tell us how you prepared for this.’ 
Austin: Yeah, how- Mm. [laughter] Yeah, Art, tell us how you prepared for this. [more laughter]
Art: Well, I was vamping because I didn't have an answer to this question. Um… How are you? 
Austin: You know what? I’m okay. We got like, you know, some minutes left in this. I'm hoping it's going to come together in the end. We’ll see. 
Art: You know, I think we uh...  Mm. 
Austin: Fade to black. [audience laughs]
Keith: Brave. 
Austin: Yeah. 
Art: Hold on. Hold on. [Art and Keith whisper]
Dre: What the fuck? 
Sylvia: Everybody's whispering to everybody. I feel really left out. 
Austin: You're allowed to whisper. 
Dre: I can whisper something to you. 
Sylvia: Yeah. Sure. [Dre and Sylvia whisper]
Keith: Yeah. 
Art: Alright. Um-
Keith: Yeah.
Art: Okay. Um-
Austin: Oh, that’s- Listen.
[Dre and Sylvia say a few quiet things; Audience laughs] 
Dre: Whisper, whisper, whisper. I’m sorry. 
Art: So, before we came, uh, we're getting ready and- [stammering] I'm like, 
Art (as Beau): Hey, Cup. Let’s uh- Let's- We're going to look a little bit- Who knows who's going to be here tonight? What if you just like... looked a little bit like Samot? What if that's what your hair looked like? What if that’s- [audience laughs, Austin pushes the mic away]
Art: [shouting] If you're gonna sway someone you should look like their husband! 
Austin: The movie is the move. I can’t- [Keith laughs] We gotta play to find out. Take plus one. [Sylvia, Dre, and the audience laugh] There is like, more in this- It’s- Uh...
Keith: I'm also gonna- I'm gonna push myself here. 
Austin: Yeah. Okay.
Keith: I need- I'm- It's-
Austin: What’s your stress at?
Keith: It's about to be at six. 
Austin: Okay. 
Art: It's a stressful time. 
Keith: So, I've got- I've got three more on there. But it's hard to be ingratiating to a guy you're trying to convince-
Austin: I’m bettin’-
Keith: -to let you steal from. 
Austin: Them. Yeah, him. Yeah. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Go ahead. Roll. Wait. How many dice is this? Three?
Keith: Uh, this is a Sway. 
Austin: Okay. 
Keith: So, it's four. [shakes dice]
Austin: Okay. I want a crit so bad. 
Keith: Six! [everyone cheers and claps]
Dre: Wait. Oh, no. That’s correct. I thought it was two sixes. 
Keith: It was close. There was a five there, too. 
Austin: Okay. He says, 
Austin (as Samothes): What if I thumb through it? [audience laughs]
Austin: And then he says, 
Austin (as Samothes): You know what? I think you're right. [laughter] This is something I shouldn't have. [audience deflates]
Keith: Damn. 
Austin: He holds up his hand, and the dogs all come to a slow stop. And they like, come over to him, and like, start sniffing at his feet. [audience and Keith say ‘awww’] And he's like- and he snaps his- He snaps his fingers, and one of them hops up and grabs it. And reaches in and like, pulls the book out. Who's closest? 
Keith: I was- I was talking to him. 
Austin: Yeah. Okay. So, you can see that it is- it is a book. So, one of them- They all have books in them. They all have books with stuff scrawled in there. A lot of them are very clearly fakes now that you can see them up close. 
Dre: Mm. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Like, a lot of them are like- So, I can just read you what the rest of them are. One of them is just like, a list of commandments. But you can see that one of them is like, ‘Don't walk down Broad- Broadway in Marielda.’ And like, that wasn't the first word. Marielda just started existing. There is a description of like, Samothes making one of the suns in- in one of the pieces of paper. One of them is like- a joke inside of one of the- the- on a single piece of paper. 
Keith: What's the joke? 
Austin: It actually said, ‘How do you entertain a bored god?’ 
Keith: How? 
Austin: ‘Give him a mirror.’ [delayed laugh; and ‘ooo’ reaction] And then uh… And then there's the right one. And it is a book of simple sketches. Of diagrams and kind of like, schematics for a machine. 
Keith: This is the real one? 
Austin: This is the real one. And he's thumbing through it, like you asked. It is held together by an orange ribbon. And at first you’re like, ‘Okay. I guess this is just some like, stuff he drew.’ And it is, but what it also is is on the back of each page-
Keith: Is a cool gun. 
Austin: Is a cool gun. [everyone laughs] The Golden Lance was right. Cool gun. They’re not- they're not schematics for cool guns. They’re just cool guns that he drew it. ‘This would be sick.’ [laughter] No. 
Keith: It has the cool ‘S.’ 
Austin: It has the cool ‘S.’ [laughter] Uh huh. Yeah. But what if it’s a gun? [more laughter] ‘How can I-? Hm.’ 
Audience Member: ‘S’ is for Samothes. 
Austin: Yeah, ‘S’ is for them. Um, they’re poems from Samot. [audience says ‘aww] Samot came into Samothes’s office one day and saw all of these pages scattered all over the place and was like, ‘That's not- You can't- You gotta bring these together.’ And so, the first book ever made in Hieron was Samot taking all of the loose, scrawled ideas that Samothes had, tying them together into a book, and then writing a love poem on the back of each inspired by whatever the schematic was. [audiences says ‘aww’ as Dre laughs] So, Samothes takes it out and thumbs through it, and then again, he says, 
Austin (as Samothes): No, you're right. I shouldn't have this right now. [everyone says ‘aww’ loudly]
Austin: And then he puts it back in the dog. And then something happens. And he was never there. Because reconfiguration is still a thing.
Dre: Yeah.
Austin: And so, you're there at the track, and the dogs are all there. And all- they're- like, they skidded out, I guess, cause of the oil or whatever. And you're able to go through them, and you find the right book, and you have it. What do you do? 
Dre: Well, now we gotta get out of here. 
Keith: Yeah. 
Austin: Oh, it's weird. It's like, there's just a real easy escape right now. [audience says ‘aww’] 
Art: Hm. 
Austin: There's a stairwell you didn't see before. It's weird. It goes right to the roof. 
Art: We should have taken those stairs. [audience laughs]
Keith: Yeah. Why did we throw the dog? [more laughter]
Sylvia: Yeah, what? What happened to your dog?
Dre: Yeah. Where's the dog. 
Keith: Samothes reconfigured it so that we threw the dog. [more laughter]
Austin: [laughs] Yeah. He’s like, ‘I think it would be sicker if they threw that dog.’ The dog has the cool ‘S’ on its- on its collar now. [laughter]
Art: [laughing] Now it's Sherringbone for some reason? [laughter]
Austin: Ugh. I'm guessing you take the stairwell that weirdly goes from the basement to the roof. 
Keith: Do we? I mean-
Dre: Yeah 
Sylvia: Yeah. 
Dre: Yeah. 
Keith: Listen to how he's describing this! 
Dre: But we don't know. Right? That’s how reconfiguration works. 
Austin: That’s how it works.
Dre: Yeah. 
Keith: Alright. 
Dre: It's fire codes. It’s always been there. [laughter]
Austin: Yeah, right. Exactly. [audience member says ‘Or OSHA.’] And you take it up and the train arrives when it arrives. Y’all have this book. Um, how are you gonna split this book up? What's the plan on this? Not to come back to books in Hieron, but like... There's a book. What do you do with it? 
Sylvia: I think on the train, Aubrey is like, trying to copy every diagram into like, a blank book basically-
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: -for her own personal collection. 
Austin: Okay. 
Sylvia: It's very messy, but it does the job. 
Austin: Do you copy the poems, too? 
Sylvia: Um… Yeah. Because I think I know a guy who might be interested in having those, too. [audience says ‘awww’]
Austin: Yeah. 
Sylvia: Yeah. [audience laughs]
Art: Alright. And then it's our turn to make our copy? 
Austin: Yeah, of course.  
Sylvia: Yeah... [light laughter]
Art: Alright. Well, Cup, you're the one who does our copies. 
Keith: Yeah, I'm the copy…-er. Copier. I'm the copier. 
Austin: Yeah. Is there more to this? Or are you just like passing it? 
Keith: Yeah. Um, so, I'm the cop- 
Austin: [quietly] Oh, you motherfucker. [laughter]
Keith: I'm the copier. I have a movie called Ghost Veil. 
Austin: [louder] You motherfucker. [audience member says, ‘Oh god.’]
Keith: I'm gonna take two stress- 
Austin: Yeah. What brings you up to almost all the way. 
Keith: Yeah. Almost all the way. 
Austin: And you’re gonna do what with Ghost Veil? 
Keith: I'm gonna slide through the floor with the book. Off the- off the platform. And I just book it. [audience claps and cheers]
Art: Book it. Book it. 
Dre: Can we do anything to resist this? 
Sylvia: I was really hoping we could recruit that guy. 
Austin: I don't think that happened. No. Um, you uh.. Can you resist it? How do you- Have you ever fought a ghost before? 
Dre: Yeah. 
Austin: Oh, yeah. You actually can. 
Dre: I have- 
Austin: I’ll give you one roll. You’re gonna-
Dre: Yeah, I have Ghost Fighter. 
Austin: You have Ghost Fighter. [audience laughs]
Dre: [reading] ‘I gain potency in combat versus the supernatural. I may grapple with spirits-’ 
Keith: [clears throat] Sorry. 
Dre: ‘-to restrain and capture them.’ 
Keith: I don't mean to stop you. Reflexes. [reading] ‘When there's a question about- [audience cheers and claps] When there's a question about who acts first, the answer is you.’ 
Dre: But- 
Keith: I'm gone. 
Dre: Can I remind you? 
[Jack de Quidt’s “Marielda” begins playing] 
Dre (continued): Sige is not to be trifled with. [reading] ‘I can push myself to perform a feat of physical force that verges on the superhuman.’ 
Keith: The answer is you. [audience laughs again] There's nothing. ‘When the question is about who acts first the answer is you.’ 
Dre: Sure. 
Austin: We don't have the time to figure this out. [audience laughs] So, we zoom back on this train, as it moves through the Marielda night. [Dre is indistinguishable] Sige squaring up and throwing one gigantic punch. Who knows if it lands? 
[music continues to play as the audience claps and cheers] 
Austin (continued): Thank you all for coming today. Everyone stay seated for now. Well, you can stand up. That’s fine. You can stand up and clap. That’s alright. [louder cheering] But how many times have I said that you can do that. 
[music plays to finish]
[1:57:11]


________________
[1] The name in the audio recording is no longer in use, hence the audio/transcript discrepancy.